6686034	19831031	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	A fungal cellulase shows sequence homology with the active site of hen egg-white lysozyme.	The N-terminal amino acid sequence of an endo-beta-1,4-glucanase from the cellulase complex of the white-rot fungus Schizophyllum commune has been determined. The sequence from Glu-33 to Tyr-51 was homologous with the active site sequences of various hen egg-white type lysozymes, including lysozyme catalytic residues (Glu-35, Asp-52) and substrate binding residue Asn-44. The homology offers evidence for a lysozyme-type mechanism in enzymic hydrolysis of cellulose. 
15158679	20040526	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 D013485 	Mutation of active site residues in the chitin-binding domain ChBDChiA1 from chitinase A1 of Bacillus circulans alters substrate specificity: use of a green fluorescent protein binding assay.	A fluorescent binding assay was developed to investigate the effects of mutagenesis on the binding affinity and substrate specificity of the chitin-binding domain of chitinase A1 from Bacillus circulans WL-12. The chitin-binding domain was genetically fused to the N-terminus of a green fluorescent protein, and the polyhistidine-tagged hybrid protein was expressed in Escherichia coli. Residues likely to be involved in the binding site were mutated and their contributions to binding and substrate specificity were evaluated by affinity electrophoresis and depletion assays. The experimental binding isotherms were analyzed by non-linear regression using a modified Langmuir equation. Non-conservative substitution of tryptophan residue (W687) nearly abolished chitin-binding affinity and dramatically lowered chitosan binding while retaining the original level of curdlan binding. Double mutation E668K/P689A had altered specificity for several substrates and also impaired chitin binding significantly. Other substitutions in the binding site altered substrate specificity but had little effect on overall affinity for chitin. Interestingly, mutation T682A led to a higher specificity towards chitinous substrates than the wildtype. Furthermore, the ChBD-GFP hybrid protein was tested for use in diagnostic staining of cell walls of fungi and yeast and for the detection of fungal infections in tissue samples. 
10380623	19990625	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Production and properties of the linamarase and amygdalase activities of Penicillium aurantiogriseum P35.	The effects of medium composition on the production of beta-glucosidase (amygdalase and linamarase) by Penicillium aurantiogriseum P35 were studied and the medium optimized as follows (g/l of deionized water): pectin, 10.0; (NH4)2SO4, 8.0; KH2PO4, 8.0; Na2HPO4, 2.8; MgSO4.7H2O, 0.5; yeast extract, 4.0; initial pH 6.0. When grown in a bench fermenter on this medium, the fungus produced 50.5 mU of amygdalase and 9.4 mU of linamarase per ml of culture broth. Two beta-glucosidases (PGI and PGII), each having amygdalase and linamarase activities, were recovered from the culture broth and purified; their relative molecular weights, as native enzymes, were estimated to be about 247,000 and 147,000, respectively. Both enzymes showed the same optimum pH (6.0) but different optimum temperatures (55 and 60 degrees C for PGI and PGII, respectively). Thermostability (10 min at 60 degrees C) and half-life of enzyme activity (7 hours at 60 degrees C) of PGII were higher than those of PGI (10 min at 50 degrees C and 2 hours at 55 degrees C, respectively). A wide range of cyanogenic glycosides (such as tetraphyllin B, epivolkenin, gynocardin, passibiflorin, prunasin, taxiphyllin, amygdalin, lucumin, sambunigrin, dhurrin, linamarin and cardiospermin sulfate) were hydrolyzed by both enzymes. 
7628617	19950717	FEBS_Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Isolation and characterisation of plant defensins from seeds of Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Hippocastanaceae and Saxifragaceae.	From seeds of Aesculus hippocastanum, Clitoria ternatea, Dahlia merckii and Heuchera sanguinea five antifungal proteins were isolated and shown to be homologous to plant defensins previously characterised from radish seeds and gamma-thionins from Poaceae seeds. Based on the spectrum of their antimicrobial activity and the morphological distortions they induce on fungi the peptides can be divided into two classes. The peptides did not inhibit any of three different alpha-amylases. 
15917591	20050527	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D003160 D023362 D016428 	Production of cellulase/beta-glucosidase by the mixed fungi culture of Trichoderma reesei and Aspergillus phoenicis on dairy manure.	A cellulase production process was developed by growing the fungi Trichoderma reesei and Aspergillus phoenicis on dairy manure. T. reesei produced a high total cellulase titer (1.7 filter paper units [FPU]/mL, filter paper activity) in medium containing 10 g/L of manure (dry basis [w/w]), 2 g/L KH2PO4, 2 mL/L of Tween-80, and 2mg/L of CoCl2. However, beta-glucosidase activity in the T. reesei-enzyme system was very low. T. reesei was then cocultured with A. phoenicis to enhance the beta-glucosidase level. The mixed culture resulted in a relatively high level of total cellulase (1.54 FPU/mL) and beta-glucosidase (0.64 IU/mL). The ratio of beta-glucosidase activity to filter paper activity was 0.41, suitable for hydrolyzing manure cellulose. The crude enzyme broth from the mixed culture was used for hydrolyzing the manure cellulose, and the produced glucose was significantly (p < 0.01) higher than levels obtained by using the commercial enzyme or the enzyme broth of the pure culture T. reesei. 
23686283	20130521	J_Mol_Model	D016428 D013485 	Sequence and structural investigation of a novel psychrophilic α-amylase from Glaciozyma antarctica PI12 for cold-adaptation analysis.	A novel α-amylase was isolated successfully from Glaciozyma antarctica PI12 using DNA walking and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) methods. The structure of this psychrophilic α-amylase (AmyPI12) from G. antarctica PI12 has yet to be studied in detail. A 3D model of AmyPI12 was built using a homology modelling approach to search for a suitable template and to generate an optimum target-template alignment, followed by model building using MODELLER9.9. Analysis of the AmyPI12 model revealed the presence of binding sites for a conserved calcium ion (CaI), non-conserved calcium ions (CaII and CaIII) and a sodium ion (Na). Compared with its template-the thermostable α-amylase from Bacillus stearothermophilus (BSTA)-the binding of CaII, CaIII and Na ions in AmyPI12 was observed to be looser, which suggests that the low stability of AmyPI12 allows the protein to work at different temperature scales. The AmyPI12 amino acid sequence and model were compared with thermophilic α-amylases from Bacillus species that provided the highest structural similarities with AmyPI12. These comparative studies will enable identification of possible determinants of cold adaptation.  
23562779	20130409	J_Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	Protein abundance in multiplexed samples (PAMUS) for quantitation of Trichoderma reesei secretome.	Protein abundance determination across multiple samples proved to be a daunting task and far fewer methods have been successfully devised for this purpose. Despite the technical challenges faced, protein abundance determination over multiple samples is still an area of interest. Herein, we introduce a new method for estimation of protein abundances in multiplexed samples (PAMUS). Protein abundance in the multiplexed sample comprising of the eight complex secretomes by Trichoderma reesei QM6a and Rut C30 grown in four different carbon sources, namely glucose, cellulose, starch, and a mixture of starch and cellulose was determined. For protein abundance in the multiplexed sample, exponentially modified protein abundance index (emPAI) was used. Using the PAMUS method, we estimated the abundance of extracellular lignocellulolytic proteins secreted by two T. reesei strains in response to various carbon sources. The results reveal that cellulose induces biosynthesis of cellulases. PAMUS analysis of the secretomes implicates T. reesei Rut C30 as a hyper cellulolytic strain and further revealed the optimum concentrations of each secreted enzyme during cellulosic substrate utilization. Our study demonstrates the plausible use of the PAMUS method for designing enzyme cocktails for optimum cellulose hydrolysis, and its potential applications in future studies involving other multiplexed biological samples. Relative protein quantitation across multiple complex biological samples dominates the field of quantitative proteomics. Protein abundance determination across multiple samples, on the other hand, proves to be a daunting task and far fewer methods have been successfully devised for this purpose. Despite the technical challenges faced, protein abundance determination over multiple samples is still an area of interest as it provides unique information about the biological processes, and physiological states of particular disease, or that of microbes. This study introduces a new method of estimation of protein abundance in multiplexed samples (PAMUS) which is applied to study eight complex secretomes by Trichoderma reesei QM6a and Rut C30 grown in different carbon sources. The expression levels of proteins in the multiplexed eight complex secretome samples were determined by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) reagents coupled with exponentially modified protein abundance index (emPAI) to calculate the abundance of each identified protein in eight conditions. This method with microbial secretome as an example facilitated a direct comparison of the abundance of proteins. This PAMUS could be applied for any multiple biological samples, for example, to study human disease to evaluate dynamic expression of proteins during disease progressions. 
10481063	19990911	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning of an alpha-glucosidase gene from Thermococcus hydrothermalis by functional complementation of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae mal11 mutant strain.	alpha-Glucosidase is found in methanogenic and thermophilic archaea and also in eukaryotes and bacteria. The gene encoding the enzyme was cloned from Thermococcus hydrothermalis by complementation of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae deficiency maltase mutant strain. The gDNA clone isolated encodes an open reading frame corresponding to a protein of 242 amino acids. The protein shows 42% identity to a Pyrococcus horikoshii unknown ORF but no similarities were obtained with polysaccharidase sequences. 
19259344	20090305	Yonsei_Med._J.	D016428 D016454 	Chitin, chitinases and chitinase-like proteins in allergic inflammation and tissue remodeling.	Chitin, the second most abundant polysaccharide in nature after cellulose, consist exoskeleton of lower organisms such as fungi, crustaceans and insects except mammals. Recently, several studies evaluated immunologic effects of chitin in vivo and in vitro and revealed new aspects of chitin regulation of innate and adaptive immune responses. It has been shown that exogenous chitin activates macrophages and other innate immune cells and also modulates adaptive type 2 allergic inflammation. These studies further demonstrate that chitin stimulate macrophages by interacting with different cell surface receptors such as macrophage mannose receptor, toll-like receptor 2 (TLR-2), C-type lectin receptor Dectin-1, and leukotriene B4 receptor (BLT1). On the other hand, a number of chitinase or chitinase-like proteins (C/CLP) are ubiquitously expressed in the airways and intestinal tracts from insects to mammals. In general, these chitinase family proteins confer protective functions to the host against exogenous chitin-containing pathogens. However, substantial body of recent studies also set light on new roles of C/CLP in the development and progression of allergic inflammation and tissue remodeling. In this review, recent findings on the role of chitin and C/CLP in allergic inflammation and tissue remodeling will be highlighted and controversial and unsolved issues in this field of studies will be discussed. 
12668313	20030402	J._Biotechnol.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013485 D023361 	Analysis and control of proteolysis of a fusion protein in Pichia pastoris fed-batch processes.	A fusion protein composed of a cellulose-binding module (CBM) from Neocallimastix patriciarum cellulase 6A and lipase B from Candida antarctica (CALB), was produced by Pichia pastoris Mut(+) in high-cell density bioreactor cultures. The production was induced by switching from growth on glycerol to growth on methanol. The lipase activity in the culture supernatant increased at an almost constant rate up to a value corresponding to 1.3 g x l(-1) of CBM-CALB. However, only about 40% of the product was of full-length according to Western blot analysis. This loss was due to a cleavage of the protein in the linker between the CBM and the CALB moieties. The cleavage was catalyzed by serine proteases in the culture supernatant. The CALB-moiety was subjected to further slow degradation by cell-associated proteolysis. Different strategies were used to reduce the proteolysis. Previous efforts to shorten the linker region resulted in a stable protein but with ten times reduced product concentration in bioreactor cultures (Gustavsson et al. 2001, Protein Eng. 14, 711-715). Addition of rich medium for protease substrate competition had no effect on the proteolysis of CBM-CALB. The kinetics for the proteolytic reactions, with and without presence of cells were shown to be influenced by pH. The fastest reaction, cleavage in the linker, was substantially reduced at pH values below 5.0. Decreasing the pH from 5.0 to 4.0 in bioreactor cultures resulted in an increase of the fraction of full-length product from 40 to 90%. Further improvement was achieved by decreasing the temperature from 30 to 22 degrees C during the methanol feed phase. By combining the optimal pH and the low temperature almost all product (1.5 g x l(-1)) was obtained as full-length protein with a considerably higher purity in the culture supernatant compared with the original cultivation. 
1873999	19910101	Crit._Rev._Biochem._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 D016454 	The glucoamylase multigene family in Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. diastaticus: an overview.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been used widely both as a model system for unraveling the biochemical, genetic, and molecular details of gene expression and the secretion process, and as a host for the production of heterologous proteins of biotechnological interest. The potential of starch as a renewable biological resource has stimulated research into amylolytic enzymes and the broadening of the substrate range of S. cerevisiae. The enzymatic hydrolysis of starch, consisting of linear (amylose) and branched glucose polymers (amylopectin), is catalyzed by alpha- and beta-amylases, glucoamylases, and debranching enzymes, e.g., pullulanases. Starch utilization in the yeast S. cerevisiae var. diastaticus depends on the expression of the three unlinked genes, STA1 (chr. IV), STA2 (chr. II), and STA3 (chr. XIV), each encoding one of the extracellular glycosylated glucoamylases isozymes GAI, GAII, or GAIII, respectively. The restriction endonuclease maps of STA1, STA2, and STA3 are identical. These genes are absent in S. cerevisiae, but a related gene, SGA1, encoding an intracellular, sporulation-specific glucoamylase (SGA), is present. SGA1 is homologous to the middle and 3' regions of the STA genes, but lacks a 5' sequence that encodes the domain for secretion of the extracellular glucoamylases. The STA genes are positively regulated by the presence of three GAM genes. In addition to positive regulation, the STA genes are regulated negatively at three levels. Whereas strains of S. diastaticus are capable of expressing the STA genes, most strains of S. cerevisiae contain STA10, whose presence represses the expression of the STA genes in an undefined manner. The STA genes are also repressed in diploid cells, presumably by the MATa/MAT alpha-encoded repressor. STA gene expression is reduced in liquid synthetic media, it is carbon catabolite repressed by glucose, and is inhibited in petite mutants. 
18031531	20071123	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Construction and characterization of bidirectional expression vectors in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The GAL1 and GAL10 genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae are transcribed divergently and transcription of both genes can be induced by galactose and repressed by glucose. This study describes the construction and characterization of 8 bidirectional expression vectors. These vectors carry both a modified inducible GAL promoter in one direction and a constitutive GPD promoter in the reverse direction. When the gene-encoded alpha-galactosidase was cloned into the modified GAL1 and GAL10 vectors, promoter activity was 85% of wild-type for the GAL1 promoter and 90% of wild-type for the GAL10 promoter, respectively. The modified GAL promoters and GPD promoter did not interfere with one another in the bidirectional vectors. Furthermore, yeast overexpressing human Bax under the control of either modified GAL1 or modified GAL10 in a bidirectional vector conferred a lethal phenotype that was rescued by coexpression of human Bcl-2 under the control of the GPD promoter in the same vector. These eight vectors can be used to express lethal genes and screen for genes that rescue the yeast from the lethal gene product. 
10564469	19991117	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 	A constitutive role for GPI anchors in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: cell wall targeting.	GPI anchors are widely represented among organisms and have several cellular functions. It has been proposed that in yeast there are two groups of GPI proteins: plasma membrane-resident proteins, such as Gas1p or Yap3p, and cell wall-targeted proteins, such as Tir1p or alpha-agglutinin. A model has been proposed for the plasma membrane retention of proteins from the first group because of a dibasic motif located just upstream of the GPI-anchoring signal. The results we report here are not in agreement with such a model as we show that constructs containing the C-terminal parts of Gas1p and Yap3p are also targeted to the cell wall. We also detect the genuine Gas1p after cell wall treatment with Quantazyme or Glucanex glycanases. In addition, we show that the GPI-anchoring signal from the human placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) is not compatible with the yeast machinery unless the human transamidase hGpi8p is co-expressed. In this condition, this human signal is able to target a protein to the cell wall. Moreover, TIR1 proved to be a multicopy suppressor of Deltagas1 mutation. The present findings suggest a constitutive role for GPI anchors in yeast: the cell wall targeting of proteins. 
1369021	19921101	Biotechnology_(N.Y.)	D016428 D013485 D013486 D016454 	Emerging strategies for enhancing crop resistance to microbial pathogens.	There are marked differences in the pattern of host gene expression in incompatible plant:microbial pathogen interactions compared with compatible interactions, associated with the elaboration of inducible defenses. Constitutive expression of genes encoding a chitinase or a ribosome-inactivating protein in transgenic plants confers partial protection against fungal attack, and a large repertoire of such antimicrobial genes has been identified for further manipulation. In addition, strategies are emerging for the manipulation of multigenic defenses such as lignin deposition and synthesis of phytoalexin antibiotics by overexpression of genes encoding rate determining steps, modification of transcription factors or other regulatory genes, and engineering production of novel phytoalexins by interspecies transfer of biosynthetic genes. The imminent cloning of disease resistance genes, further molecular dissection of stress signal perception and transduction mechanisms, and identification of genes that affect symptom development will provide attractive new opportunities for enhancing crop protection. Combinatorial integration of these novel strategies into ongoing breeding programs should make an important contribution to effective, durable field resistance. 
4722441	19730201	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Partial purification and properties of a beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase from the fungus Sclerotinia fructigena.	1. As cultures of the fungus Sclerotinia fructigena autolysed, the filtrates contained increasing quantities of a beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase. 2. The enzyme was purified up to 42-fold by a combination of isoelectric focusing and gel filtration. 3. It ran as a single band in cellulose acetate strip electrophoresis and in isoelectric focusing (pI3.76). 4. The enzyme did not readily hydrolyse chitin or a glycopeptide with terminal N-acetylglucosamine residues, but rapidly degraded the N-acetylglucosamine dimer NN'-diacetylchitobiose; the monomer was readily utilized by the fungus as a nitrogen source. The K(m) value for hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl beta-2-acetamido-2-deoxy-d-glucopyranoside at 37 degrees C was 2.0mm. The Sclerotinia enzyme was generally less susceptible to inhibition by 2-acetamido-2-deoxygluconolactone and other related sugars than the corresponding enzyme from other sources. Inhibition by excess of substrate was observed. 5. The culture filtrate also contained N-acetylgalactosaminidase activity; conflicting evidence was obtained as to whether the same enzyme was responsible for both hexosaminidase activities. 
23688474	20130522	Carbohydr_Polym	D016428 D013485 	Activity of chitin deacetylase from Colletotrichum gloeosporioides on chitinous substrates.	Production of chitin deacetylases from the phytopathogenic fungus Colletotrichum gloeosporioides was successfully achieved by submerged fermentation. The highest specific activity of 0.018 U mg(-1) of protein was obtained after 96 h of cultivation at pH 6 and 28°C. Two bands with molecular weights of 35 kDa and 170 kDa determined with SDS-PAGE displayed deacetylase activities as detected in the zymograms. Reacetylated commercial chitosan (52% acetylation degree) was used as substrate for the extracellular crude extract in order to estimate the kinetic parameters of acetate production as undirected deacetylation measurement. The highest acetate production of 12.8 μmol mL(-1) was obtained using 7.5 mg mL(-1) of substrate. The produced enzyme from C. gloeosporioides achieved up to 25% deacetylation of a chitin substrate (hydrolyzed biological chitin) having 80% degree of acetylation, MW of 102×10(3) g mol(-1) and a crystallinity index of ca. 60%. 
2340591	19900301	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Cloning, characterization, and expression of two alpha-amylase genes from Aspergillus niger var. awamori.	Using synthetic oligonucleotide probes, we cloned genomic DNA sequences encoding an alpha-amylase gene from Aspergillus niger var. awamori (A. awamori) on a 5.8 kb EcoRI fragment. Hybridization experiments, using a portion of this cloned fragment to probe DNA from A. awamori, suggested the presence of two alpha-amylase gene copies which were subsequently cloned as 7 kb (designated as amyA) and 4 kb (amyB) HindIII fragments. DNA sequence analysis of the amyA and amyB genes revealed the following: (1) Both genes are arranged as nine exons and eight introns; (2) The nucleotide sequences of amyA and amyB are identical throughout all but the last few nucleotides of their respective coding regions; (3) The amyA and amyB genes from A. awamori share extensive homology (greater than or equal to 98% identity) with the genes encoding Taka-amylase from A. oryzae. In order to test whether both amyA and amyB were functional in the genome, we constructed vectors containing gene fusions of either amyA and amyB to bovine prochymosin cDNA and used these vectors to transform A. awamori. Transformants which contained either the amyA- or amyB-prochymosin gene fusions produced extracellular chymosin, suggesting that both genes are functional. 
20673988	20100803	J._Allergy_Clin._Immunol.	D016428 	Serum amyloid P attenuates M2 macrophage activation and protects against fungal spore-induced allergic airway disease.	Aspergillus fumigatus conidia aggravate asthmatic responses. Lung macrophages normally kill fungal conidia, but the presence of type 2 cytokines during asthma contributes to the alternative (or M2) activation of these cells, which secrete proallergic factors and exhibit impaired innate immunity. Considering that pentraxins modulate macrophage function, we examined the effect of C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum amyloid P (SAP) in an experimental model of A fumigatus-induced allergic airway disease. The effects of SAP and CRP on M2 macrophage differentiation were examined in vitro, and the in vivo effects of these pentraxins were analyzed in the asthma model. SAP inhibited the generation of M2 markers, such as arginase and the chitinase Ym-1, through an FcγR-dependent mechanism in cultured macrophages. This effect correlated with a decrease in signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) phosphorylation in SAP-treated M2 macrophages. In vivo treatment with SAP significantly decreased methacholine-induced bronchial resistance, mucus cell metaplasia, the number of "found in inflammatory zone 1" (FIZZ1)-positive cells in the lungs, and collagen deposition compared with the control group. CRP had a modest effect on M2 differentiation, and in vivo treatment with CRP had a minor effect or exacerbated A fumigatus-induced lung disease. Finally, the adoptive transfer of SAP-pretreated M2 macrophages into allergic mice significantly attenuated disease when compared with nontransferred or M2-transferred control groups. These findings demonstrate that SAP is a potent inhibitor of M2 macrophage differentiation and represents a novel therapy in A fumigatus-induced allergic disease. 
15800731	20050401	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Different control mechanisms regulate glucoamylase and protease gene transcription in Aspergillus oryzae in solid-state and submerged fermentation.	Solid-state fermentation (SSF) with Aspergillus oryzae results in high levels of secreted protein. However, control mechanisms of gene expression in SSF have been only poorly studied. In this study we show that both glucoamylase (glaB) and protease (alpA, nptB) genes are highly expressed during surface cultivation on wheat-based solid medium, and even higher during cultivation on wheat kernels. In wheat-based liquid medium, low levels of gene expression are observed. Typical SSF cultivation conditions, such as low water activity and the formation of aerial hyphae, did not contribute to the high-level gene expression on wheat-based solid medium. Analysis of wheat-based solid and liquid cultivations showed differences in carbon and nitrogen utilisation and external pH. The results presented show that the difference in regulation of transcription of the alpA and nptB genes in wheat-based liquid and solid medium could be pH dependent, involving a pH-dependent transcription regulator. The results obtained suggest that the difference in regulation of transcription of the glaB gene in wheat-based liquid and solid medium is caused by a difference in carbohydrate degradation and consumption under the different culture conditions. 
8680668	19960701	Am._J._Respir._Crit._Care_Med.	D016428 D013485 	Exposure-sensitization relationship for alpha-amylase allergens in the baking industry.	Fungal alpha-amylase is an important occupational allergen in the bakery industry. Epidemiologic studies focusing on the relationship between alpha-amylase allergen exposure and work-related respiratory allergy, however, have not been reported yet. In this cross-sectional study, sensitization to occupational allergens and work-related symptoms were studied in 178 bakery workers and related to allergen exposure. Alpha-amylase allergen concentrations were measured in personal dust samples, using a sandwich enzyme immunoassay. All workers were categorized into groups on the basis of their job histories and the alpha-amylase exposure levels of their job titles. Of all workers 25% had one or more work-related symptoms. As much as 9% of the bakery workers showed a positive skin prick test reaction to fungal amylase, and in 8% amylase-specific IgE was demonstrated. Alpha-amylase exposure and atopy appeared to be the most important determinants of skin sensitization, with prevalence ratios for atopy of 20.8 (95% CI, 2.74 to 158) and for medium and high alpha-amylase exposure groups of 8.6 (95% CI, 1.01 to 74) and 15.9 (95% CI, 1.95 to 129), respectively. Furthermore, a positive association was found between positive skin prick tests to alpha-amylase and work-related respiratory symptoms. In conclusion, this study has shown that there is a strong and positive relationship between alpha-amylase allergen exposure levels in bakeries and specific sensitization in bakery workers. 
18590232	20080702	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 	[Prediction and analysis of the secreteomic in Trichoderma reesei].	We studied the secretomics' properties of Trichoderma reesei, an important industrial microorganism used for cellulase production. We analyzed the amino acid sequences coded by 9997 ORFs in Trichoderma reesei genome with bioinformatics approaches, identified 294 possible secreted protein sequences, and classified them by functions. We also applied motif search methods to search key motifs in the function-unknown sequences and preliminary predicted their functions. Moreover, we analyzed the signal peptide sequences of the secreted proteins. There were 188 hydrolytic enzymes in Trichoderma reesei's secretomics, including 114 glycosidases, 42 proteases, and 11 lipoidases. The glycosidases included 22 reported cellulases, and 15 chitinases, as well as 30 other protein sequences probably related to cellulose degradation. The homology of signal peptides of secreted proteins was low whereas sequences near the digesting site of signalase were conservative. This method gave insights into the whole secreted proteome of Trichoderma reesei and provided basis for further studies on secretomic features at a genome level. 
17534583	20070531	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Mycoparasitism studies of Trichoderma harzianum strains against Rhizoctonia solani: evaluation of coiling and hydrolytic enzyme production.	The genus Trichoderma is a potential biocontrol agent against several phytopathogenic fungi. One parameter for its successful use is an efficient coiling process followed by a substantial production of hydrolytic enzymes. The interaction between fifteen isolates of Trichoderma harzianum and the soil-borne plant pathogen, Rhizoctonia solani, was studied by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Macroscopic observations of fungal growth in dual cultures revealed that growth inhibition of the pathogen occurred soon after contact with the antagonist. All T. harzianum isolates tested exhibited coiling around the hyphae of R. solani. The strains ALL23, ALL40, ALL41, ALL43 and ALL49 did not differ in coiling frequency and gave equal coiling performances. No correlation between coiling frequency and the production of cell wall-degrading chitinases, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and beta-1,3-glucanases, was found. 
17690465	20070811	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Purification, biochemical characterization, and gene cloning of a new extracellular thermotolerant and glucose tolerant maltooligosaccharide-forming alpha-amylase from an endophytic ascomycete Fusicoccum sp. BCC4124.	An endophytic fungus, Fusicoccum sp. BCC4124, showed strong amylolytic activity when cultivated on multi-enzyme induction enriched medium and agro-industry substrates. alpha-Amylase and alpha-glucosidase activities were highly induced in the presence of maltose and starch. The purified target alpha-amylase, Amy-FC1, showed strong hydrolytic activity on soluble starch (kcat/Km=6.47 x 10(3) min(-1)(ml/mg)) and selective activity on gamma- and beta-cyclodextrins, but not on alpha-cyclodextrin. The enzyme worked optimally at 70 degrees C in a neutral pH range with t(1/2) of 240 min in the presence of Ca(2+) and starch. Maltose, matotriose, and maltotetraose were the major products from starch hydrolysis but prolonged reaction led to the production of glucose, maltose, and maltotriose from starch, cyclodextrins, and maltooligosaccharides (G3-G7). The amylase showed remarkable glucose tolerance up to 1 M, but was more sensitive to inhibition by maltose. The deduced protein primary structure from the putative gene revealed that the enzyme shared moderate homology between alpha-amylases from Aspergilli and Lipomyces sp. This thermotolerant, glucose tolerant maltooligosaccharide-forming alpha-amylase is potent for biotechnological application. 
12790687	20030607	Biotechnol._Prog.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Pulsed feeding during fed-batch Aspergillus oryzae fermentation leads to improved oxygen mass transfer.	Productivity in many fungal fermentations is detrimentally affected by high broth viscosity and consequent reduced oxygen mass transfer capacity. The goal here was to determine whether pulsed feeding of limiting carbon in a fungal fermentation could lead to reduced viscosity and improved oxygen mass transfer. As a model, an industrially relevant recombinant strain of Aspergillus oryzae was grown in carbon-limited, fed-batch mode. Maltodextrin was used as a carbon source and was added either continuously or in 1.5-min pulses, 3.5 min apart. In both feeding modes the same total amount of carbon was added, and carbon feed rate was at sufficiently low levels to ensure cultures were always carbon-limited. Compared to continuous feeding, pulsed addition of substrate led to smaller fungal elements, which resulted in a significant reduction in broth viscosity. This in turn led to higher dissolved oxygen concentrations and increased oxygen uptake rates during pulsed feeding. 
11710023	20011117	Biomacromolecules	D016428 D013485 	Degradation of mannan I and II crystals by fungal endo-beta-1,4-mannanases and a beta-1,4-mannosidase studied with transmission electron microscopy.	We have used the endo-beta-1,4-mannanase from Trichoderma reesei (Tr Man5A), the endo-beta-1,4-mannanase from Aspergillus niger (An Man5A) and the exo-beta-1,4-mannosidase from A. niger (An Mnd2A) to follow the enzymatic degradation of mannan I and II crystals. The degradation process was studied by transmission electron microscopy and also followed by analysis of the released soluble reducing sugars. The mannan crystals were degraded by the endo-beta-1,4-mannanases and to a lesser extent by the exo-beta-1,4-mannosidase. The observed hydrolysis pattern on mannan I crystals is fully consistent with the current view of the molecular structure of these crystals. The molecular organization of the mannan chains in mannan II crystals is less clear and the digestion results give some further information about the ultrastructure of mannan II. In addition, insight is provided into the mode of the enzymatic attack on the crystals of mannan I and mannan II. 
23175782	20121124	Food_Sci_Technol_Int	D016428 D013485 	Viscozyme L action on soy slurry affects carbohydrates and antioxidant properties of silken tofu.	This study investigated the enzymatic treatment of soy slurry using Viscozyme L to hydrolyze the carbohydrates. The optimum temperature of Viscozyme L action was 55 °C. The increase of glucose and galactose content in tofu (1.36 and 0.19 g/100 g, respectively) confirmed the Viscozyme activity on soy slurry when compared to the control. The treated tofu had more total phenolics than the control (173 and 161 mg gallic acid equivalents/100 g freeze-dried tofu, respectively) and higher antioxidant activity by the 2,2'-azinobis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) diammonium salt and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryhydrazyl,2,2-diphenyl-1-picryhydrazyl radical tests. Total reducing sugar (glucose equivalents) content in treated tofu was approximately four times higher than that in the control under the optimum conditions (30 Fungal Beta-Glucanase units/10 g solids, 55 °C, 30 min). The tofus differed in the sensory analysis for soy odor and surface uniformity, but there was no preference for one over the other. 
573117	19790401	Biochem._J.	D016428 	A 1,4-beta-glucan glucanohydrolase from the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma viride QM 9414. Purification, characterization and preparation of an immunoadsorbent for the enzyme.	A 1,4-beta-glucan glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.4) was isolated from culture filtrates of the fungus Trichoderma viride QM 9414 by molecular-sieve chromatography on Bio-Gel P-30, ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex A-50 and isoelectric focusing in a density gradient. Polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis at two different pH values, analytical isoelectric focusing in a polyacrylamide-gel slab and molecular-sieve chromatography of the reduced and alkylated enzyme in a denaturing medium indicated a homogeneous protein. The enzyme has a mol.wt. of 51,000 and is not a glycoprotein. The pI was found to be 4.66 at 23 degrees C. Antiserum against the purified enzyme was prepared and the amount of enzyme in the original filtrate was determined by rocket immunoelectrophoresis to be about 50mg/liter. An immunoadsorbent made from CNBr-activated sepharose 4B and antiserum affords a rapid and highly specific purification of the enzyme. 
9133320	19970201	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 	The role of the cellulolytic high molecular mass (HMM) complex of the anaerobic fungus Piromyces sp. strain E2 in the hydrolysis of microcrystalline cellulose.	The anaerobic fungus Piromyces sp. strain E2 produces extracellular cellulolytic enzymes present both in a high molecular mass (HMM) complex or as individual proteins. Although the HMM complex was present in the culture fluid during all growth stages, the highest amounts of complex were obtained when cultures were harvested at the end of fungal growth. The complex obtained after gel-filtration chromatography on Sephacryl S-300 HR was found to be the major factor in hydrolysis of cellulose to glucose (sole product, up to 250 mM). The complex was very stable as demonstrated by identical hydrolysis patterns with fresh preparations or preparations stored at 4 degrees C for 2 months. From inhibition experiments with gluconic acid lactone and glucose, it was concluded that the HMM complex must contain at least one glucohydrolase. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that a partially purified HMM complex was composed of at least ten polypeptides and contained numerous endoglucanases and one beta-glucosidase. 
23374631	20130205	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Assembling a cellulase cocktail and a cellodextrin transporter into a yeast host for CBP ethanol production.	Many microorganisms possess enzymes that can efficiently degrade lignocellulosic materials, but do not have the capability to produce a large amount of ethanol. Thus, attempts have been made to transform such enzymes into fermentative microbes to serve as hosts for ethanol production. However, an efficient host for a consolidated bioprocess (CBP) remains to be found. For this purpose, a synthetic biology technique that can transform multiple genes into a genome is instrumental. Moreover, a strategy to select cellulases that interact synergistically is needed. To engineer a yeast for CBP bio-ethanol production, a synthetic biology technique, called "promoter-based gene assembly and simultaneous overexpression" (PGASO), that can simultaneously transform and express multiple genes in a kefir yeast, Kluyveromyces marxianus KY3, was recently developed. To formulate an efficient cellulase cocktail, a filter-paper-activity assay for selecting heterologous cellulolytic enzymes was established in this study and used to select five cellulase genes, including two cellobiohydrolases, two endo-β-1,4-glucanases and one beta-glucosidase genes from different fungi. In addition, a fungal cellodextrin transporter gene was chosen to transport cellodextrin into the cytoplasm. These six genes plus a selection marker gene were one-step assembled into the KY3 genome using PGASO. Our experimental data showed that the recombinant strain KR7 could express the five heterologous cellulase genes and that KR7 could convert crystalline cellulose into ethanol. Seven heterologous genes, including five cellulases, a cellodextrin transporter and a selection marker, were simultaneously transformed into the KY3 genome to derive a new strain, KR7, which could directly convert cellulose to ethanol. The present study demonstrates the potential of our strategy of combining a cocktail formulation protocol and a synthetic biology technique to develop a designer yeast host. 
22850791	20120802	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D016454 	Plant β-1,3-glucanases: their biological functions and transgenic expression against phytopathogenic fungi.	β-1,3-Glucanases are abundant in plants and have been characterized from a wide range of species. They play key roles in cell division, trafficking of materials through plasmodesmata, in withstanding abiotic stresses and are involved in flower formation through to seed maturation. They also defend plants against fungal pathogens either alone or in association with chitinases and other antifungal proteins. They are grouped in the PR-2 family of pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins. Use of β-1,3-glucanase genes as transgenes in combination with other antifungal genes is a plausible strategy to develop durable resistance in crop plants against fungal pathogens. These genes, sourced from alfalfa, barley, soybean, tobacco, and wheat have been co-expressed along with other antifungal proteins, such as chitinases, peroxidases, thaumatin-like proteins and α-1-purothionin, in various crop plants with promising results that are discussed in this review. 
17537269	20070601	BMC_Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Physiological evaluation of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei in production processes by marker gene expression analysis.	Biologically relevant molecular markers can be used in evaluation of the physiological state of an organism in biotechnical processes. We monitored at high frequency the expression of 34 marker genes in batch, fed-batch and continuous cultures of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei by the transcriptional analysis method TRAC (TRanscript analysis with the aid of Affinity Capture). Expression of specific genes was normalised either with respect to biomass or to overall polyA RNA concentration. Expressional variation of the genes involved in various process relevant cellular functions, such as protein production, growth and stress responses, was related to process parameters such as specific growth and production rates and substrate and dissolved oxygen concentrations. Gene expression of secreted cellulases and recombinant Melanocarpus albomyces laccase predicted the trends in the corresponding extracellular enzyme production rates and was highest in a narrow "physiological window" in the specific growth rate (micro) range of 0.03-0.05 h-1. Expression of ribosomal protein mRNAs was consistent with the changes in mu. Nine starvation-related genes were found as potential markers for detection of insufficient substrate feed for maintaining optimal protein production. For two genes induced in anaerobic conditions, increasing transcript levels were measured as dissolved oxygen decreased. The data obtained by TRAC supported the usefulness of focused and intensive transcriptional analysis in monitoring of biotechnical processes providing thus tools for process optimisation purposes. 
18944140	20081024	Phytopathology	D016428 	Benzothiadiazole Activates Resistance in Sunflower (Helianthus annuus) to the Root-Parasitic Weed Orobanche cuman.	ABSTRACT The study was conducted to evaluate the potential of induced resistance to infestation of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) by the parasitic weed Orobanche cumana Wallr. Treatment of sunflower seeds with 40 ppm of benzo(1,2,3)thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester (BTH) for 36 h completely prevented infection in root chambers. In pot studies using 2.86 x 10(-4) g of Orobanche seeds per gram of soil as inoculum, the total number of O. cumana shoots was reduced by 84 and 95% in the 60-ppm BTH treatment in the first and second trial, respectively. Evaluation of the disease incidences revealed that attachment of O. cumana at the sunflower root and the stage of early penetration was reduced in the BTH-treated plants. Chemical analysis of root extracts revealed synthesis of the phytoalexin scopoletin and of hydrogen peroxide in the BTH-treated sunflower roots, but no increase in lignification. Western blot analysis demonstrated accumulation of the pathogenesis-related protein chitinase in roots and stems of induced resistant plants. These results show that the phenomenon of induced resistance is not restricted to viral, bacterial, and fungal disease and demonstrate the great potential of this protection strategy as an effective component of future plant production systems. 
12200333	20020830	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Enhanced degradation of an endocrine-disrupting chemical, butyl benzyl phthalate, by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. pisi cutinase.	Compared to yeast esterase, fungal cutinase degraded butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP) far more efficiently; i.e., almost 60% of the BBP disappeared within 7.5 h. Also, the final chemical composition significantly depended on the enzyme used. Toxicity monitoring using bioluminescent bacteria showed that butyl methyl phthalate, a major product of degradation by esterase, was an oxidative toxic hazard. 
10049695	19990302	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 	Identification of a site of Hsp27 binding with Hsp27 and alpha B-crystallin as indicated by the yeast two-hybrid system.	The small heat-shock proteins (sHsp), including Hsp27 and alphaB-crystallin, usually form large oligomers in cells. It has been suggested that the sHsp form oligomers by binding either a conserved C-terminal amino acid sequence or the less conserved N-terminal region. However, the site of binding has not been precisely determined. We used the yeast two-hybrid system to investigate binding of full-length rat Hsp27 or fragments of Hsp27 to full-length rat Hsp27 or alphaB-crystallin molecules. A series of cDNAs coding for fragments of Hsp27 were generated and ligated with the coding sequence for the binding domain of the yeast Gal4p transcription factor. These cDNAs were each transfected into yeast that had been transfected to express full-length rat Hsp27 or alphaB-crystallin fused with the DNA binding domain of Gal4p. Yeast cells transfected with both plasmids were assayed, by both a beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) filter assay and a quantitative liquid assay, for activation of Gal4p-driven beta-gal expression. Results indicated that the N-terminal domain of Hsp27 consisting of amino acids 1-124 did not bind to Hsp27 or alphaB-crystallin. The predominant Hsp27-Hsp27/alphaB-crystallin binding domain was the conserved C-terminal region consisting of amino acids 141-206, particularly amino acids 141-176. 
7764601	19940301	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Interaction of transport resistances with biochemical reaction in packed-bed solid-state fermentors: effect of temperature gradients.	In solid-state fermentation, the interaction of transport phenomena with biochemical reactions has a considerable effect on the productivity of the bioreactor. Previous work on solid-state fermentation in tray fermentors in our laboratory indicated that heat transfer resistance results in steep temperature gradients within the solid substrate bed, which in turn adversely affect the biochemical reaction and enzyme activity. This problem of heat accumulation during the course of fermentation has been alleviated to a considerable extent using a packed-column bioreactor with forced aeration in the present work. Experimental studies were conducted in a packed-column bioreactor utilizing wheat bran as substrate and the fungus Aspergillus niger CFTRI 1105 for the production of the enzyme amyloglucosidase. The enzyme activities were estimated and temperatures were recorded at different bed heights, for different air flow rates during the course of fermentation. The results indicated that the temperature gradients caused by heat transfer resistances were reduced considerably with corresponding increases in enzyme activity. 
8588743	19951201	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 	The alpha-D-mannan core of a complex cell-wall heteroglycan of Trichoderma reesei is responsible for beta-glucosidase activation.	A heteroglycan responsible for the binding of the enzyme beta-1,4-D-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21) to fungal cell walls was isolated from cell walls of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. The heteroglycan, composed of mannose, galactose, glucose, and glucuronic acid, also activated beta-1,4-D-glucosidase, beta-1,4-D-xylosidase and N-acetyl-beta-1,4-D-glucosaminidase activity in vitro. The structural backbone of this heteroglycan was prepared by acid hydrolysis and gel filtration. The molecular structure of the core of the heteroglycan was determined by NMR studies as a linear alpha-1,6-D-mannan. The mannan core obtained by acid degradation stimulated the beta-glucosidase activity by 90%. Several glycosidases from Aspergillus niger were also activated by the T. reesei heteroglycan. The beta-glucosidase of Trichoderma was activated by mannan from Saccharomyces cerevisiae to a comparable extent. 
17450126	20070424	Nature	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Chitin induces accumulation in tissue of innate immune cells associated with allergy.	Allergic and parasitic worm immunity is characterized by infiltration of tissues with interleukin (IL)-4- and IL-13-expressing cells, including T-helper-2 cells, eosinophils and basophils. Tissue macrophages assume a distinct phenotype, designated alternatively activated macrophages. Relatively little is known about the factors that trigger these host responses. Chitin, a widespread environmental biopolymer of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosamine, provides structural rigidity to fungi, crustaceans, helminths and insects. Here, we show that chitin induces the accumulation in tissue of IL-4-expressing innate immune cells, including eosinophils and basophils, when given to mice. Tissue infiltration was unaffected by the absence of Toll-like-receptor-mediated lipopolysaccharide recognition but did not occur if the injected chitin was pre-treated with the IL-4- and IL-13-inducible mammalian chitinase, AMCase, or if the chitin was injected into mice that overexpressed AMCase. Chitin mediated alternative macrophage activation in vivo and the production of leukotriene B(4), which was required for optimal immune cell recruitment. Chitin is a recognition element for tissue infiltration by innate cells implicated in allergic and helminth immunity and this process can be negatively regulated by a vertebrate chitinase. 
21216942	20110111	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D052061 D013485 	The pathogenic fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis exports extracellular vesicles containing highly immunogenic α-Galactosyl epitopes.	Exosome-like vesicles containing virulence factors, enzymes, and antigens have recently been characterized in fungal pathogens, such as Cryptococcus neoformans and Histoplasma capsulatum. Here, we describe extracellular vesicles carrying highly immunogenic α-linked galactopyranosyl (α-Gal) epitopes in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. P. brasiliensis is a dimorphic fungus that causes human paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM). For vesicle preparations, cell-free supernatant fluids from yeast cells cultivated in Ham's defined medium-glucose were concentrated in an Amicon ultrafiltration system and ultracentrifuged at 100,000 × g. P. brasiliensis antigens were present in preparations from phylogenetically distinct isolates Pb18 and Pb3, as observed in immunoblots revealed with sera from PCM patients. In an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), vesicle components containing α-Gal epitopes reacted strongly with anti-α-Gal antibodies isolated from both Chagas' disease and PCM patients, with Marasmius oreades agglutinin (MOA) (a lectin that recognizes terminal α-Gal), but only faintly with natural anti-α-Gal. Reactivity was inhibited after treatment with α-galactosidase. Vesicle preparations analyzed by electron microscopy showed vesicular structures of 20 to 200 nm that were labeled both on the surface and in the lumen with MOA. In P. brasiliensis cells, components carrying α-Gal epitopes were found distributed on the cell wall, following a punctuated confocal pattern, and inside large intracellular vacuoles. Lipid-free vesicle fractions reacted with anti-α-Gal in ELISA only when not digested with α-galactosidase, while reactivity with glycoproteins was reduced after β-elimination, which is indicative of partial O-linked chain localization. Our findings open new areas to explore in terms of host-parasite relationships in PCM and the role played in vivo by vesicle components and α-galactosyl epitopes. 
8012584	19940301	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Synergistic interaction between fungal cell wall degrading enzymes and different antifungal compounds enhances inhibition of spore germination.	Different classes of cell wall degrading enzymes produced by the biocontrol fungi Trichoderma harzianum and Gliocladium virens inhibited spore germination of Botrytis cinerea in a bioassay in vitro. The addition of any chitinolytic or glucanolytic enzyme to the reaction mixture synergistically enhanced the antifungal properties of five different fungitoxic compounds against B. cinerea. The chemicals tested were gliotoxin, flusilazole, miconazole, captan and benomyl. Dose response curves were determined for each combination of toxin and enzyme, and in all cases the ED50 values of the mixtures were substantially lower than ED50 values of the two compounds used alone. For instance, the addition of endochitinase from T. harzianum at a concentration of 10 micrograms ml-1 reduced the ED50 values of toxins up to 86-fold. The level of synergism appeared to be higher when enzymes were combined with toxins having primary sites of action associated with membrane structure, compared with pesticides having multiple or cytoplasmic sites of action. Among enzymes tested, the highest levels of synergism with synthetic fungicides were detected for the endochitinase from T. harzianum strain P1, which, when used alone, was the most effective chitinolytic enzyme against phytopathogenic fungi of those tested. The use of hydrolytic enzymes to synergistically enhance the antifungal ability of fungitoxic compounds may reduce the impact of some chemical pesticides on plants and animals. 
23840414	20130711	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Ascomycota members dominate fungal communities during straw residue decomposition in arable soil.	This study investigated the development of fungal community composition in arable soil during the degradation of straw residue. We explored the short-term responses of the fungal community over 28 days of decomposition in soil using culture-independent polymerase chain reaction in combination with a clone library and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Fungal cellobiohydrolase I (cbhI) genes in the soil were also characterized, and their diversity suggested the existence of a different cellulose decomposer. The DGGE profiles based on fungal internal transcribed spacer analysis showed different successions of fungal populations during residue decomposition. Members of Lecythophora and Sordariales were dominant in the early succession, while Hypocrea and Engyodontium were better adapted in the late succession. The succession of fungal communities might be related to changes of residue quality during decomposition. Collectively, sequences assigned to Ascomycota members were dominant at different stages of the fungal succession during decomposition, revealing that they were key drivers responsible for residue degradation in the arable soil tested.  
17010217	20061003	BMC_Genomics	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Transcriptional monitoring of steady state and effects of anaerobic phases in chemostat cultures of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei.	Chemostat cultures are commonly used in production of cellular material for systems-wide biological studies. We have used the novel TRAC (transcript analysis with aid of affinity capture) method to study expression stability of approximately 30 process relevant marker genes in chemostat cultures of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei and its transformant expressing laccase from Melanocarpus albomyces. Transcriptional responses caused by transient oxygen deprivations and production of foreign protein were also studied in T. reesei by TRAC. In cultures with good steady states, the expression of the marker genes varied less than 20% on average between sequential samples for at least 5 or 6 residence times. However, in a number of T. reesei cultures continuous flow did not result in a good steady state. Perturbations to the steady state were always evident at the transcriptional level, even when they were not measurable as changes in biomass or product concentrations. Both unintentional and intentional perturbations of the steady state demonstrated that a number of genes involved in growth, protein production and secretion are sensitive markers for culture disturbances. Exposure to anaerobic conditions caused strong responses at the level of gene expression, but surprisingly the cultures could regain their previous steady state quickly, even after 3 h O2 depletion. The main effect of producing M. albomyces laccase was down-regulation of the native cellulases compared with the host strain. This study demonstrates the usefulness of transcriptional analysis by TRAC in ensuring the quality of chemostat cultures prior to costly and laborious genome-wide analysis. In addition TRAC was shown to be an efficient tool in studying gene expression dynamics in transient conditions. 
24414501	20140114	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Improved production of extracellular α-amylase, by the thermophilic fungusMalbranchea sulfurea, following protoplast fusion.	Protoplasts of a catabolite-repression-resistant strain ofMalbranchea sulfurea and a mutant of it over-producing amylase were isolated and fused using electrofusion. The yield of hybrids was 5×10(-5). One stable hybrid, DGCS 1, was insensitive to glucose repression and produced approx. twice the α-amylase activity produced by either of its parents. The amount of DNA in DGCS 1 was also double that of either parent strain.  
7592973	19951110	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning and characterization of a rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase from Aspergillus aculeatus. Synergism between rhamnogalacturonan degrading enzymes.	A rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase (RGAE) was purified to homogeneity from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus aculeatus, and the NH2-terminal amino acid sequence was determined. Full-length cDNAs encoding the enzyme were isolated from an A. aculeatus cDNA library using a polymerase chain reaction-generated product as a probe. The 936-base pair rha1 cDNA encodes a 250-residue precursor protein of 26,350 Da, including a 17-amino acid signal peptide. The rha1 cDNA was overexpressed in Aspergillus oryzae, a filamentous fungus that does not possess RGAE activity, and the recombinant enzyme was purified and characterized. Mass spectrometry of the native and recombinant RGAE revealed that the enzymes are heterogeneously glycosylated. In addition, the observed differences in their molecular masses, lectin binding patterns, and monosaccharide compositions indicate that the glycan moieties on the two enzymes are structurally different. The RGAE was shown to act in synergy with rhamnogalacturonase A as well as rhamnogalacturonase B from A. aculeatus in the degradation of apple pectin rhamnogalacturonan. RNA gel blot analyses indicate that the expression of rhamnogalacturonan degrading enzymes by A. acculeatus is regulated at the level of transcription and is subjected to carbon catabolite repression by glucose. 
12555575	20030131	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Screening of acidic xylanase producing strain and studies on its enzyme production conditions].	From 150 fungal strains, the authors found 8 strains contained mainly of xylanase activity over 100 U/mL in which the No. 149 strain was the highest xylanase producer. Which tentatively identified as Aspergillas niger. The appropriate medium composition was as follows: wheat bran hemicellulose 4%; NaNO3 1%; wheat bran 1% prepared in Mandels nutritional solution without (NH4)2SO4 and urea. After cultivated in shake-flask at 28 degrees C-32 degrees C for 60 h, the activity reached the highest value of 357.2 U/mL. The optimum pH of xylanase was 4.6 and it was stable at pH3-11. The fermented broth of strain 149 contained in addition to xylanase (relative activity 100) also included amylase(1.8), mannanase(0.98), beta-xylosidase(0.94) and cellulase(0.17). 
22159609	20111214	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of suitable ionic liquids for application in the enzymatic hydrolysis of rutin by an automated screening.	An automated method in milliliter scale was developed for the screening of process parameters concerning the hydrolysis of the flavonoid rutin catalyzed by the rhamnosidase activity of naringinase from Penicillium decumbens. Besides the effect of additives such as ionic liquids and low molecular salts, the productivity in a multiple phase system as well as the recyclability of the enzyme in repetitive batches were studied. The hydrophobic ionic liquid (IL) trihexyl(tetradecyl)phosphonium bis(trifluormethylsulfonyl)imide [P(h(3))t][Tf(2)N] was identified to combine the most favorable characteristics out of 23 investigated ILs with regard to enzyme compatibility, substrate solubility and enzyme partition coefficient. Also, for the corresponding cations 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium [EMIM], 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium [BMIM], 1-butyl-1-methylpyrrolidinium [BMPL] and 1-octyl-3-methylimidazolium [OMIM], the entity with the [Tf(2)N] anion was best tolerated by the naringinase. With increasing IL content, higher space time yields with up to 1.5 g/(L h) for 80% (v/v) [P(h(3))t][Tf(2)N] were achieved. Enhanced specific enzyme activity was observed in the presence of Ca(2+) ions. By addition of [P(h(3))t][Tf(2)N] and calcium chloride, the reactive aqueous phase was successfully used in three repetitive batches with full conversion. 
18478372	20080515	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Grass lignocellulose: strategies to overcome recalcitrance.	Grass lignocelluloses are limited in bioconversion by aromatic constituents, which include both lignins and phenolic acids esters. Histochemistry, ultraviolet absorption microspectrophotometry, and response to microorganisms and specific enzymes have been used to determine the significance of aromatics toward recalcitrance. Coniferyl lignin appears to be the most effective limitation to biodegradation, existing in xylem cells of vascular tissues; cell walls with syringyl lignin, for example, leaf sclerenchyma, are less recalcitrant. Esterified phenolic acids, i.e., ferulic and p-coumaric acids, often constitute a major chemical limitation in nonlignified cell walls to biodegradation in grasses, especially warm-season species. Methods to improve biodegradation in grasses, especially warm-season species. Methods to improve biodegradability through modification of aromatics include: plant breeding, use of lignin-degrading white-rot fungi, and addition of esterases. Plant breeding for new cultivars has been especially effective for nutritionally improved forages, for example, bermudagrasses. In laboratory studies, selective white-rot fungi that lack cellulases delignified the lignocellulosic materials and improved fermentation of residual carbohydrates. Phenolic acid esterases released p-coumaric and ferulic acids for potential coproducts, improved the available sugars for fermentation, and improved biodegradation. The separation and removal of the aromatic components for coproducts, while enhancing the availability of sugars for bioconversion, could improve the economics of bioconversion. 
22070776	20111111	BMC_Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Disruption of Trichoderma reesei cre2, encoding an ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase, results in increased cellulase activity.	The filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina) is an important source of cellulases for use in the textile and alternative fuel industries. To fully understand the regulation of cellulase production in T. reesei, the role of a gene known to be involved in carbon regulation in Aspergillus nidulans, but unstudied in T. reesei, was investigated. The T. reesei orthologue of the A. nidulans creB gene, designated cre2, was identified and shown to be functional through heterologous complementation of a creB mutation in A. nidulans. A T. reesei strain was constructed using gene disruption techniques that contained a disrupted cre2 gene. This strain, JKTR2-6, exhibited phenotypes similar to the A. nidulans creB mutant strain both in carbon catabolite repressing, and in carbon catabolite derepressing conditions. Importantly, the disruption also led to elevated cellulase levels. These results demonstrate that cre2 is involved in cellulase expression. Since the disruption of cre2 increases the amount of cellulase activity, without severe morphological affects, targeting creB orthologues for disruption in other industrially useful filamentous fungi, such as Aspergillus oryzae, Trichoderma harzianum or Aspergillus niger may also lead to elevated hydrolytic enzyme activity in these species. 
23576280	20130412	J._Sci._Food_Agric.	D016428 D013485 	Effects of postharvest salicylic acid dipping on Alternaria rot and disease resistance of jujube fruit during storage.	Considerable postharvest losses caused by Alternaria alternata often occur in Chinese jujube fruit, and synthetic fungicides have been widely used to protect the fruit from Alternaria rot. However, the potential harmfulness of fungicide residues to human health and the environment cannot be ignored. This study was conducted to develop an alternative approach for controlling postharvest disease by inducing fruit resistance with salicylic acid (SA) dipping. Disease incidence and lesion area in the jujube fruit inoculated with A. alternata were significantly inhibited by 2 and 2.5 mmol L(-1) SA dipping. Naturally infected decay rate and index in jujubes were also significantly reduced by SA dipping during long-term storage at 0°C. SA enhanced activities of the main defense-related enzymes including phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, peroxidase, chitinase and β-1,3-glucanase in the fruit during storage. SA strongly decreased catalase activity but increased superoxide dismutase activity and ascorbic acid content in jujubes. The beneficial effects of SA on fruit protection may be due to its ability to activate several highly coordinated defence-related systems in jujubes, instead of its fungicidal activity. The findings indicated that application of SA would offer an alternative approach that helps to control postharvest disease and maintain storage quality in fruits. 
8862027	19960901	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	The effect of rumen chitinolytic bacteria on cellulolytic anaerobic fungi.	The polycentric anaerobic fungus Orpinomyces joyonii A4 was cultivated on microcrystalline cellulose alone and in association with the rumen chitinolytic bacterium Clostridium sp. strain ChK5, which shows strong phenotypic similarity to Clostridium tertium. The presence of strain ChK5 significantly depressed the solubilization of microcrystalline cellulose, the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) and the release of endoglucanase by the fungus. Co-culture of the monocentric anaerobic fungus Neocallimastix frontalis strain RE1, Neocallimastix sp. strain G-1 and Caecomyces sp. strain SC2 with strain ChK5 also resulted in depressed fungal cellulolysis. Cell-free supernatant fluids from strain ChK5 inhibited the release of reducing sugars from carboxymethylcellulose by cell-free supernatant fluids from O. joyonii strain A4. Strain 007 of the cellulolytic anaerobe Ruminococcus flavefaciens was also shown to produce small amounts of soluble products upon incubation with colloidal chitin. Mixtures of culture supernates from this bacterium and from O. joyonii strain A4 showed cellulase activity that was less than that of the component cultures. It is suggested that the ability of some rumen bacteria to hydrolyse or transform chitin may be an important factor in the interactions between bacteria and fungi in the rumen. 
7339615	19810101	Prep._Biochem.	D016428 D013487 	Methods for the rapid purification of trehalase from Dictyostelium discoideum.	A rapid and reliable method for the preparation of homogeneous trehalase from the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum for usage in enzyme characterization studies and trehalose assays was developed. This procedure takes advantage of the fact that trehalase activity is secreted by Dictyostelium during the course of development, the major fraction being released late in fruiting body formation. Purification of trehalase to electrophoretic homogeneity was accomplished utilizing the techniques of ultrafiltration, streptomycin sulfate precipitation, ammonium sulfate fractionation, DEAE-Sephacel chromatography and preparative disc gel electrophoresis. Analysis of the purified enzyme by analytical polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis demonstrated the presence of a single protein band which was stainable with Coomassie blue. Assay of trehalase activity in eluates from segments of a companion gel indicated that all of the recovered trehalase activity was associated with this band of protein. Examination of the substrate specificity of the purified enzyme indicated absolute specificity for trehalose. 
2562758	19890701	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Purification of (1-->3)-beta-glucan endohydrolase isoenzyme II from germinated barley and determination of its primary structure from a cDNA clone.	A (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan 3-glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.39) of apparent M(r) 32,000, designated GII, has been purified from germinated barley grain and characterized. The isoenzyme is resolved from a previously purified isoenzyme (GI) on the basis of differences in their isoelectric points; (1-->3)-beta-glucanases GI and GII have pI values of 8.6 and > or = 10.0, respectively. Comparison of the sequences of their 40 NH2-terminal amino acids reveals 68% positional identity. A 1265 nucleotide pair cDNA encoding (1-->3)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme GII has been isolated from a library prepared with mRNA of 2-day germinated barley scutella. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the cDNA has enabled the complete primary structure of the 306 amino acid (1-->3)-beta-glucanase to be deduced, together with that of a putative NH2-terminal signal peptide of 28 amino acid residues. The (1-->3)-beta-glucanase cDNA is characterized by a high (G+C) content, which reflects a strong bias for the use of G or C in the wobble base position of codons. The amino acid sequence of the (1-->3)-beta-glucanase shows highly conserved internal domains and 52% overall positional identity with barley (1-->3, 1-->4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EII, an enzyme of related but quite distinct substrate specificity. Thus, the (1-->3)-beta-glucanases, which may provide a degree of protection against microbial invasion of germinated barley grain through their ability to degrade fungal cell wall polysaccharides, appear to share a common evolutionary origin with the (1-->3, 1-->4)-beta-glucanases, which function to depolymerize endosperm cell walls in the germinated grain. 
19100826	20081223	Biotechnol._Adv.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Lignocellulosic residues: biodegradation and bioconversion by fungi.	The ability of fungi to degrade lignocellulosic materials is due to their highly efficient enzymatic system. Fungi have two types of extracellular enzymatic systems; the hydrolytic system, which produces hydrolases that are responsible for polysaccharide degradation and a unique oxidative and extracellular ligninolytic system, which degrades lignin and opens phenyl rings. Lignocellulosic residues from wood, grass, agricultural, forestry wastes and municipal solid wastes are particularly abundant in nature and have a potential for bioconversion. Accumulation of lignocellulosic materials in large quantities in places where agricultural residues present a disposal problem results not only in deterioration of the environment but also in loss of potentially valuable material that can be used in paper manufacture, biomass fuel production, composting, human and animal feed among others. Several novel markets for lignocellulosic residues have been identified recently. The use of fungi in low cost bioremediation projects might be attractive given their lignocellulose hydrolysis enzyme machinery. 
8605293	19960201	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Regulation, expression and function of a new basic chitinase gene in rice (Oryza sativa L.).	A new basic chitinase gene, designated RC24, was isolated from a rice genomic library. The predicted RC24 protein contains 322 amino acid residues and exhibits 68% to 95% amino acid identity with known class I rice chitinases. RC24 protein expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited chitinase activity and strongly inhibited bacterial growth. Two transcription start sites of the RC24 gene were mapped by primer extension analysis of both rice native RNA and in vitro transcribed RNA using a RC24 promoter/GUS (beta-glucuronidase) gene fusion as a template. The 5'-flanking region of RC24 contained several putative stress-responsive cis-acting elements. A basal level of RC24 transcripts was detected in rice root and stem tissues, but not in leaf tissues. RC24 transcripts rapidly accumulated within 1 h after fungal elicitor treatment of suspension-cultured cells, and the levels continued to increase for at least 9 h. RC24 transcript accumulation was also observed in intact leaf tissues upon wounding, Transgenic rice plants containing the RC24/GUS gene fusion further confirmed that the RC24 gene showed a tissue-specific expression pattern and that transcription of the RC24 propmoter was sensitively and rapidly activated by wounding. 
24412956	20140114	Int._J._Food_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Malting of barley with combinations of Lactobacillus plantarum, Aspergillus niger, Trichoderma reesei, Rhizopus oligosporus and Geotrichum candidum to enhance malt quality.	Good quality malt is characterised by the presence of high levels of fermentable sugars, amino acids and vitamins. To reach the starch-rich endosperm of the kernel, β-glucan- and arabinoxylan-rich cell walls have to be degraded. β-Glucanase is synthesized in vast quantities by the aleurone layer and scutellum during germination. Secretion of hydrolytic enzymes is often stimulated by addition of the plant hormone gibberellic acid (GA3) during germination. We have shown an enhanced β-glucanase and α-amylase activity in malt when germinating barley was inoculated with a combination of Lactobacillus plantarum B.S1.6 and spores of Aspergillus niger MH1, Rhizopus oligosporus MH2 or Trichoderma reesei MH3, and L. plantarum B.S1.6 combined with cell-free culture supernatants from each of these fungi. Highest malt β-glucanase activity (414 Units/kg malt) was recorded with a combination of L. plantarum B.S1.6 and spores of A. niger MH1. Highest α-amylase activities were recorded with a combination of L. plantarum B.S1.6 and spores of R. oligosporus MH2 (373 Ceralpha Units/g malt). Highest FAN levels were recorded when L. plantarum was inoculated in combination with spores of either R. oligosporus MH2 or T. reesei MH3 (259 and 260 ppm, respectively). This is the first study showing that cell-free culture supernatants of Aspergillus, Rhizopus and Trichoderma have a stimulating effect on β-glucanase and α-amylase production during malting. A combination of L. plantarum B.S1.6, and spores of A. niger MH1 and R. oligosporus MH2 may be used as starter cultures to enhance malt quality. 
23243062	20121218	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Surface stress induces a conserved cell wall stress response in the pathogenic fungus Candida albicans.	The human fungal pathogen Candida albicans can grow at temperatures of up to 45°C. Here, we show that at 42°C substantially less biomass was formed than at 37°C. The cells also became more sensitive to wall-perturbing compounds, and the wall chitin levels increased, changes that are indicative of wall stress. Quantitative mass spectrometry of the wall proteome using (15)N metabolically labeled wall proteins as internal standards revealed that at 42°C the levels of the β-glucan transglycosylases Phr1 and Phr2, the predicted chitin transglycosylases Crh11 and Utr2, and the wall maintenance protein Ecm33 increased. Consistent with our previous results for fluconazole stress, this suggests that a wall-remodeling response is mounted to relieve wall stress. Thermal stress as well as different wall and membrane stressors led to an increased phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase Mkc1, suggesting activation of the cell wall integrity (CWI) pathway. Furthermore, all wall and membrane stresses tested resulted in diminished cell separation. This was accompanied by decreased secretion of the major chitinase Cht3 and the endoglucanase Eng1 into the medium. Consistent with this, cht3 cells showed a similar phenotype. When treated with exogenous chitinase, cell clusters both from stressed cells and mutant strains were dispersed, underlining the importance of Cht3 for cell separation. We propose that surface stresses lead to a conserved cell wall remodeling response that is mainly governed by Mkc1 and is characterized by chitin reinforcement of the wall and the expression of remedial wall remodeling enzymes. 
22609439	20120522	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	A cellulolytic Hypocrea strain isolated from South American brave straw produces a modular xylanase.	Cellulase-producing fungi from the Andean regions in Bolivia, an ecosystem characterized as an extreme arid highland, were studied. Thirty-two isolates were screened for presence of cellulase activity using carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) as carbon source, and activity was confirmed using a filter paper assay. One isolate, denoted as BLT1C was selected from this screening, and sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) classified the strain as Hypocrea lixii. The secretome of BLT1C showed high xylanase activity (compared to that of two reference Trichoderma reesei strains) when cultivated using brave straw, an abundant native grass from the area, as carbon source. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed three main protein-bands (18, 32 and 65 kDa) and in-gel digestion and mass spectrometry combined with activity analysis showed that these proteins were active xylanases with molecular masses corresponding to (I) a single glycoside hydrolase family 11 catalytic module (18 kDa), and (II, III) modular enzymes, with the GH11 catalytic domain connected to a module of unknown function (32 kDa) or putatively connected to a GH7 catalytic module (65 kDa). The N-terminal sequence of the 65 kDa xylanase did not show significant sequence similarities to deposited sequences. The collected data on xylanase activity, molecular mass, GH11-sequence conservation, combined with lack of sequence similarities in the N-terminus show that the 65 kDa band corresponds to a novel modular xylanase. 
15280227	20040729	Genetics	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013487 	Defects arising from whole-genome duplications in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Comparisons among closely related species have led to the proposal that the duplications found in many extant genomes are the remnants of an ancient polyploidization event, rather than a result of successive duplications of individual chromosomal segments. If this interpretation is correct, it would support Ohno's proposal that polyploidization drives evolution by generating the genetic material necessary for the creation of new genes. Paradoxically, analysis of contemporary polyploids suggests that increased ploidy is an inherently unstable state. To shed light on this apparent contradiction and to determine the effects of nascent duplications of the entire genome, we generated isogenic polyploid strains of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Our data show that an increase in ploidy results in a marked decrease in a cell's ability to survive during stationary phase in growth medium. Tetraploid cells die rapidly, whereas isogenic haploids remain viable for weeks. Unlike haploid cells, which arrest growth as unbudded cells, tetraploid cells continue to bud and form mitotic spindles in stationary phase. The stationary-phase death of tetraploids can be prevented by mutations or conditions that result in growth arrest. These data show that whole-genome duplications are accompanied by defects that affect viability and subsequent survival of the new organism. 
10953084	20000823	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Evaluation of the CaMAL2 promoter for regulated expression of genes in Candida albicans.	An expression vector (CIp10-MAL2p) for use in Candida albicans has been constructed in which a gene of interest can be placed under the control of the CaMAL2 maltase promoter and stably integrated at the CaRP10 locus. Using this vector to express the Candida URA3 gene from the CaMAL2 promoter, we have demonstrated tight regulation of CaURA3 expression by carbon source. Thus under conditions when the CaMAL2 promoter is not induced, expression of Candida URA3 was unable either to complement a C. albicans ura3 mutation or to confer sensitivity to 5-fluoroorotic acid, a compound which is highly toxic to URA3 strains. Since Candida albicans is an obligate diploid organism, analysis of gene function requires manipulation of both copies of any gene of interest. Our expression vector provides a strategy by which the remaining copy of a gene of interest can be placed under CaMAL2 promoter control in a strain where the first copy has been deleted, permitting analysis of gene function by manipulation of carbon source. CIp10-MAL2p should therefore provide a useful means for functional analysis of genes in C. albicans. We have used this strategy with C. albicans DPB2 to demonstrate that the gene is essential and that loss of function leads cells to adopt a hypha-like morphology as they cease proliferation. 
11159920	20010213	Glycobiology	D016428 	N-linked oligosaccharide processing enzyme glucosidase II produces 1,5-anhydrofructose as a side product.	alpha-1,4-Glucan lyase cleaves alpha-1,4-linkages of nonreducing termini of alpha-1,4-glucans to produce 1,5-anhydrofructose (1,5-AnFru). The enzymes isolated from fungi and algae show high homology with glycoside hydrolase family 31. Purification of alpha-1,4-glucan lyase from rat liver using DEAE Cellulose chromatography resulted in separation of two enzymatic active fractions, one was bound to the column and the other was in the flow-through. Partial amino acid sequence determined from the lyase, retained on the anion exchange column, were identical with that of the N:-linked oligosaccharide processing enzyme glucosidase II. The lyase showed similar enzymatic properties as the microsomal glucosidase such as inhibition by 1-deoxynojirimycin and castanospermine. On the other hand, glucosidase II purified from rat liver microsomes produced not only glucose but also a small amount of 1,5-AnFru using maltose as substrate. Furthermore, CHO cells overexpressing pig liver glucosidase II showed a 1.5- to 2-fold higher lyase activity compared to the nontransfected CHO cells. Conversely, no lyase activity was detectable either in PHAR2.7, the glucosidase II-deficient mutant from a mouse lymphoma cell line, or in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain YG427 having the glucosidase II gene disrupted. These data demonstrate that glucosidase II possesses an additional enzymatic activity of releasing 1,5-AnFru from maltose. 
20306187	20100323	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression, characterization and site-directed mutagenesis of cutinase CUTAB1 from Alternaria brassicicola.	The cutinase CUTAB1 was cloned from a cutin induced culture of Alternaria brassicicola and heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris under the control of the methanol-inducible AOX1 promoter. From a 400-ml culture, 36 mg of purified recombinant enzyme were obtained. Biochemical characterization revealed highest catalytic activity of the enzyme at 40 degrees C and pH 7-9 using p-nitrophenyl palmitate (p-NPP) as substrate. Among several fatty acid methyl and ethyl esters, glycerol esters and p-nitrophenyl esters tested, CUTAB1 showed highest activity towards tributyrin (3,302 +/- 160 U mg(-1)) and the activity decreased with increase in chain length of the investigated esters. Lowest activity was found for p-NPP. Replacing Leu80, Leu181 and Ile183, respectively, by the smaller alanine in the hydrophobic binding loop of CUTAB1, drastically reduced the overall activity of the enzyme. On the other hand, mutation A84F located in the small helical flap of CUTAB1 significantly increased the activity of the enzyme towards longer chain substrates like p-NPP. 
7502577	19950915	Yeast	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Isolation and characterization of a novel yeast gene, ATH1, that is required for vacuolar acid trehalase activity.	We have isolated a plasmid containing a gene, ATH1, that results in eight- to ten-fold higher acid trehalase activity in yeast cells when present in high copy. The screening procedure was based on overproduction-induced mislocalization of acid trehalase activity; overproduction of vacuolar enzymes that transit through the secretory pathway leads to secretion to the cell surface. A DNA fragment that confers cell surface expression of acid trehalase activity was cloned and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence displayed no homology to known proteins, indicating that we have identified a novel gene. A deletion in the genomic copy of the ATH1 gene eliminates vacuolar acid trehalase activity. These results suggest that ATH1 may be the structural gene encoding vacuolar acid trehalase or that the gene product may be essential regulatory component involved in control of trehalase activity. 
2681253	19891101	J._Clin._Microbiol.	D016428 D013487 	Isoenzyme biotypes of Candida species.	Isoenzyme profiles were obtained following polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of crude extracts of Candida albicans and C. tropicalis. The two species were separated by distinct isoenzyme patterns. Within each species, variations were found for several isoenzymes. This allowed the development of a method for biotyping these fungi. Isoenzyme patterns of the sucrose-negative variants "C. stellatoidea" and "C. paratropicalis Baker, Salkin, Pincus, and D'Amato" were obtained and subjected to cluster analysis. This procedure failed to place the variants into clusters that were clearly distinct from the conventional sucrose-positive strains. All sucrose-negative strains were found to have alpha-glucosidase activity. There was an almost complete lack of heterogeneity in the isoenzyme patterns of 11 C. stellatoidea type I strains. 
10943566	20000816	J._Mol._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Construction of efficient centromeric, multicopy and expression vectors for the yeast Kluyveromyces marxianus using homologous elements and the promoter of a purine-cytosine-like permease.	Efficient centromeric and multicopy vectors have been constructed for the yeast Kluyveromyces marxianus using homologous ARS and centromere sequences. A homologous promoter of a purine-cytosine permease gene called PCPL3 has been cloned, using an expression system based on GUS. Its strength has been estimated in K. marxianus by putting the homologous beta-glucosidase gene under its control. This promoter is very efficient as activities higher than the ones obtained with the Saccharomyces cerevisiae PGK promoter were obtained. This promoter appears to be constitutive in various conditions tested. Its five transcription start sites have been mapped, and a derivative expression vector for K. marxianus has been constructed. 
14500708	20030923	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013487 	The Hsp90 molecular chaperone complex regulates maltose induction and stability of the Saccharomyces MAL gene transcription activator Mal63p.	Induction of the Saccharomyces MAL structural genes encoding maltose permease and maltase requires the MAL activator, a DNA-binding transcription activator. Genetic analysis of MAL activator mutations suggested that protein folding and stability play an important role in MAL activator regulation and led us to explore the role of the Hsp90 molecular chaperone complex in the regulation of the MAL activator. Strains carrying mutations in genes encoding components of the Hsp90 chaperone complex, hsc82 Delta hsp82-T101I and hsc82 Delta cpr7 Delta, are defective for maltase induction and exhibit significantly reduced growth rates on media containing a limiting concentration of maltose (0.05%). This growth defect is suppressed by providing maltose in excess. Using epitope-tagged alleles of the MAL63 MAL activator, we showed that Mal63p levels are drastically reduced following depletion of cellular Hsp90. Overexpression ( approximately 3-fold) of Mal63p in the hsc82 Delta hsp82-T101I and hsc82 Delta cpr7 Delta strains suppresses their Mal- growth phenotype, suggesting that Mal63p levels are limiting for maltose utilization in strains with abrogated Hsp90 activity. Consistent with this, the half-life of Mal63p is significantly shorter in the hsc82 Delta cpr7 Delta strain (reduced about 6-fold) and modestly affected in the Hsp90-ts strain (reduced about 2-fold). Most importantly, triple hemagglutinin-tagged Mal63p protein is found in association with Hsp90 as demonstrated by co-immunoprecipitation. Taken together, these results identify the inducible MAL activator as a client protein of the Hsp90 molecular chaperone complex and point to a critical role for chaperone function in alternate carbon source utilization in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
7787175	19950401	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Molecular cloning and characterization of a pea chitinase gene expressed in response to wounding, fungal infection and the elicitor chitosan.	The fungicidal class I endochitinases (E.C.3.3.1.14, chitinase) are associated with the biochemical defense of plants against potential pathogens. We isolated and sequenced a genomic clone, DAH53, corresponding to a class I basic endochitinase gene in pea, Chi1. The predicted amino acid sequence of this chitinase contains a hydrophobic C-terminal domain similar to the vacuole targeting sequences of class I chitinases isolated from other plants. The pea genome contains one gene corresponding to the chitinase DAH53 probe. Chitinase RNA accumulation was observed in pea pods within 2 to 4 h after inoculation with the incompatible fungal strain Fusarium solani f. sp. phaseoli, the compatible strain F. solani f.sp. pisi, or the elicitor chitosan. The RNA accumulation was high in the basal region (lower stem and root) of both fungus challenged and wounded pea seedlings. The sustained high levels of chitinase mRNA expression may contribute to later stages of pea's non-host resistance. 
10913295	20000729	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Recognition of chitooligosaccharides and their N-acetyl groups by putative subsites of chitin deacetylase from a deuteromycete, Colletotrichum lindemuthianum.	The reaction pattern of an extracellular chitin deacetylase from a Deuteromycete, Colletotrichum lindemuthianum ATCC 56676, was investigated by use of chitooligosaccharides [(GlcNAc)(n)(), n = 3-6] and partially N-deacetylated chitooligosaccharides as substrates. When 0.5% of (GlcNAc)(n)() was deacetylated, the corresponding monodeacetylated products were initially detected without any processivity, suggesting the involvement of a multiple-chain mechanism for the deacetylation reaction. The structural analysis of these first-step products indicated that the chitin deacetylase strongly recognizes a sequence of four N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) residues of the substrate (the subsites for the four GlcNAc residues are defined as -2, -1, 0, and +1, respectively, from the nonreducing end to the reducing end), and the N-acetyl group in the GlcNAc residue positioned at subsite 0 is exclusively deacetylated. When substrates of a low concentration (100 microM) were deacetylated, the initial deacetylation rate for (GlcNAc)(4) was comparable to that of (GlcNAc)(5), while deacetylation of (GlcNAc)(3) could not be detected. Reaction rate analyses of partially N-deacetylated chitooligosaccharides suggested that subsite -2 strongly recognizes the N-acetyl group of the GlcNAc residue of the substrate, while the deacetylation rate was not affected when either subsite -1 or +1 was occupied with a D-glucosamine residue instead of GlcNAc residue. Thus, the reaction pattern of the chitin deacetylase is completely distinct from that of a Zygomycete, Mucor rouxii, which produces a chitin deacetylase for accumulation of chitosan in its cell wall. 
2810367	19890905	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization of the core protein of cellobiohydrolase II from Trichoderma reesei.	Single crystals of the core protein of the cellulase cellobiohydrolase II have been grown in polyethylene glycol 6000 with the hanging drop method. Successful crystallization occurred only when 82 amino acids were removed from the N terminus by papain cleavage. Crystals belong to the space group P2(1) and have cell constants a = 49.1 A, b = 75.8 A, c = 92.9 A, beta = 103.2. The diffraction pattern extends to better than 2.0 A. 
7035173	19811201	Eur._J._Cell_Biol.	D016428 	Localization of chitin in the cell wall of Candida albicans by means of wheat germ agglutinin. Fluorescence and ultrastructural studies.	Cytochemical localization of wheat germ agglutinin binding sites in the cell wall of Candida albicans was investigated with fluorescence and electron microscopy. Various analytical techniques were employed in order to obtain a good penetration of the cytochemical markers, glycosylated horseradish peroxidase or glycosylated ferritin. In blastospores sectioned by cryostatic methods, a weak and continuous labelling of the blastospore periphery was observed with peroxidase, whereas bud scars and inner cell wall areas were labelled with ferritin. Following enzymatic treatment with pronase whose efficiency was followed by the periodic acid-thiocarbohydrazide -- Silver proteinate technique, the inner cell wall layers of bud are strongly stained with both fluorescein and the reactions products of peroxidase. After pronase-chitinase treatment, fluorescence was observed only in the mother cell wall. Finally, ultrathin glycol methacrylate sections showed a labelling both in inner and outer layers. All these results suggest that chitin was essentially distributed in the inner wall layers near the plasmalemma and in a smaller amount in outer wall layers. On the basis of the present findings, a hypothesis of wall assembly is proposed. 
16346375	19830801	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Isolation and Characterization of a Xylanase from Bacillus subtilis.	Partial characterization of an extracellular xylanase isolated by chromatography from Bacillus subtilis gave a molecular weight of 32,000 and optimum pH and temperature of 5.0 and 50 degrees C, respectively. K(m) and V(max) values, determined with a soluble larchwood xylan, were 0.16% and 7.0 x 10 mumol min mg of enzyme respectively. The amino acid composition showed more basic amino acid residues than in a previously characterized xylanase from a white-rot fungus. 
17981782	20071106	Front._Biosci.	D016428 	TYchi, a novel chitinase with RNA N-glycosidase and anti-tumor activities.	Chitinases which catalyze hydrolysis of chitin are believed to be antifungal proteins in plant. Nevertheless, a variety of functions and some new enzymatic activities of chitinases have been found in recent years. We cloned a novel protein from Trichosanthes kirilowii Maximowicz (Family Cucurbitaceae) named TYchi. Expression of TYchi gene in T. kirilowii plants was induced by F. oxysporum, an important cucurbitaceous fungal pathogen, which indicated that TYchi involved in the pathogen-induced plant defense reaction. In addition to its chitin-hydrolytic activity, the recombinant TYchi protein also had RNA N-glycosidase property. In cell-free rabbit reticulocyte lysate system, TYchi inhibited protein synthesis with an IC50 of approximate 5 nM. TYchi also exhibited efficient cytotoxicities to leukemia U937 and choriocarcinoma JAR cells with IC50 about 54 microg ml(-1) and 73 microg ml(-1), respectively. Structure analyses indicated that the putative domain of TYchi is highly similar to the well known active domain of the N-glycosidase trichosanthin (TCS). This bifuntional protein should be useful in diverse applications like RIP-based immunotoxin agent and genetic engineering of plant resistance. 
12586401	20030215	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of the ech42 (endochitinase) gene of Trichoderma atroviride under carbon starvation is antagonized via a BrlA-like cis-acting element.	Expression of the endochitinase encoding ech42 gene of the mycoparasite Trichoderma atroviride is subject to control by several environmental signals, including derepression by carbon starvation. In order to identify promoter areas involved in control by this condition, we prepared fusions of several mutant forms of the ech42 promoter to the Aspergillus niger goxA gene as a reporter. Removal of a 130-bp fragment comprising a binding site for the carbon catabolite repressor Cre1, an AGGGG element and three separate binding sites identical and highly similar, respectively, to those for the Aspergillus nidulans regulator of conidiation BrlA resulted in a three-fold increase in derepression under carbon starvation. A truncation of the promoter to 196 bp, which removed all of the observed DNA binding motifs, resulted in five-fold derepression. In vitro protein-DNA binding analyses showed that only the BrlA-like sites, but neither the AGGGG element nor the Cre1 binding site, bound proteins from cell-free extracts from carbon-starved mycelia of T. atroviride. Thus this study identifies a new regulator of chitinase gene expression in Trichoderma, a BrlA-like binding motif. 
12216836	20020910	Lipids	D003160 D016428 	Distinction between esterases and lipases: a kinetic study with vinyl esters and TAG.	The better to characterize enzymes hydrolyzing carboxyl ester bonds (carboxyl ester hydrolases), we have compared the kinetic behavior of various lipases and esterases against solutions and emulsions of vinyl esters and TAG. Short-chain vinyl esters are hydrolyzed at comparable rates by esterases and lipases and have higher limits of solubility in water than corresponding TAG. Therefore, they are suited to study the influence of the physical state of the substrate on carboxyl ester hydrolase activity within a large concentration range. Enzymes used in this study are TAG lipases from microorganisms, lipases from human and guinea pig pancreas, pig liver esterase, and acetylcholinesterase. This study also includes cutinase, a fungal enzyme that displays functional properties between esterases and lipases. Esterases display maximal activity against solutions of short-chain vinyl esters (vinyl acetate, vinyl propionate, and vinyl butyrate) and TAG (triacetin, tripropionin, and tributyrin). Half-maximal activity is reached at ester concentrations far below the solubility limit. The transition from solution to emulsion at substrate concentrations exceeding the solubility limit has no effect on esterase activity. Lipases are active on solutions of short-chain vinyl esters and TAG but, in contrast to esterases, they all display maximal activity against emulsified substrates and half-maximal activity is reached at substrate concentrations near the solubility limit of the esters. The kinetics of hydrolysis of soluble substrates by lipases are either hyperbolic or deviate from the Michaelis-Menten model and show no or weak interfacial activation. The presence of molecular aggregates in solutions of short-chain substrates, as evidenced by a spectral dye method, likely accounts for the activity of lipases against soluble esters. Unlike esterases, lipases hydrolyze emulsions of water-insoluble medium- and long-chain vinyl esters and TAG such as vinyl laurate, trioctanoin, and olive oil. In conclusion, comparisons of the kinetic behavior of carboxyl ester hydrolases against solutions and emulsions of vinyl esters and TAG allows the distinction between lipases and esterases. In this respect, it clearly appears that guinea pig pancreatic lipase and cutinase are unambiguously classified as lipases. 
3925812	19850601	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	A cellulase assay coupled to cellobiose dehydrogenase.	An assay for cellulase activity based on the oxidation of cellobiose, formed during the cellulase reaction, with ferricyanide and a cellobiose dehydrogenase derived from the cellulolytic fungus Sporotrichum (Chrysosporium) thermophile is presented. Due to the restricted specificity of this enzyme for cellobiose and cellodextrins, glucose, which may be formed by the action of some cellulolytic components or by beta-glucosidase, does not contribute to the result. The negative interference of beta-glucosidase may be eliminated by glucono-delta-lactone inhibition. The assay, which is not influenced by cellobiose back-inhibition of the cellulase reaction, like the usual cellulase tests based on the increase in reducing power, is basically unspecific with respect to endo- or exo-acting enzymes giving rise to a total cellulase activity. With the use of an amorphous cellulose substrate (reprecipitated cellulose after dissolving in concentrated phosphoric acid), unpredictable effects due to cooperativity between endo- and exo-enzyme components were eliminated. An analytical procedure giving a linear response between activity and enzyme concentration and between activity and time of incubation has been worked out. 
20626281	20100715	Phytopathology	D016428 D013485 	Biocontrol activity and induction of systemic resistance in pepper by compost water extracts against Phytophthora capsici.	We investigated the effects of water extracts of composts (CWE) from commercial compost facilities for controlling root and foliar infection of pepper plants by Phytophthora capsici. Among 47 CWE tested, CWE from composts Iljuk-3, Iljuk-7, Shinong-8, and Shinong-9 significantly (P < 0.05) inhibited zoospore germination, germ tube elongation, mycelial growth, and population of P. capsici. All selected CWE significantly (P < 0.05) reduced the disease incidence and severity in the seedling and plant assays compared with the controls. However, there were no significant differences in zoospore germination, disease incidence, and disease severity between treatments of untreated, autoclaved, and filtered CWE. In addition, CWE significantly (P < 0.05) suppressed leaf infection of P. capsici through induced systemic resistance (ISR) in plants root-drenched with CWE. The tested CWE enhanced the expression of the pathogenesis-related genes, CABPR1, CABGLU, CAChi2, CaPR-4, CAPO1, or CaPR-10 as well as beta-1,3-glucanase, chitinase, and peroxidase activities, which resulted in enhanced plant defense against P. capsici in pepper plants. Moreover, the CWE enhanced the chemical and structural defenses of the plants, including H(2)O(2) generation in the leaves and lignin accumulation in the stems. The CWE could also suppress other fungal pathogens (Colletotrichum coccodes in pepper leaves and C. orbiculare in cucumber leaves) through ISR; however, it failed to inhibit other bacterial pathogens (Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria in pepper leaves and Pseudomonas syringae pv. lachrymans in cucumber leaves). These results suggest that a heat-stable chemical(s) in the CWE can suppress root and foliar infection by P. capsici in pepper plants. In addition, these suppressions might result from direct inhibition of development and population of P. capsici for root infection, as well as indirect inhibition of foliar infection through ISR with broad-spectrum protection. 
10610795	19991228	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	The structure of the exo-beta-(1,3)-glucanase from Candida albicans in native and bound forms: relationship between a pocket and groove in family 5 glycosyl hydrolases.	A group of fungal exo-beta-(1,3)-glucanases, including that from the human pathogen Candida albicans (Exg), belong to glycosyl hydrolase family 5 that also includes many bacterial cellulases (endo-beta-1, 4-glucanases). Family members, despite wide sequence variations, share a common mechanism and are characterised by possessing eight invariant residues making up the active site. These include two glutamate residues acting as nucleophile and acid/base, respectively. Exg is an abundant secreted enzyme possessing both hydrolase and transferase activity consistent with a role in cell wall glucan metabolism and possibly morphogenesis. The structures of Exg in both free and inhibited forms have been determined to 1.9 A resolution. A distorted (beta/alpha)8 barrel structure accommodates an active site which is located within a deep pocket, formed when extended loop regions close off a cellulase-like groove. Structural analysis of a covalently bound mechanism-based inhibitor (2-fluoroglucosylpyranoside) and of a transition-state analogue (castanospermine) has identified the binding interactions at the -1 glucose binding site. In particular the carboxylate of Glu27 serves a dominant hydrogen-bonding role. Access by a 1,3-glucan chain to the pocket in Exg can be understood in terms of a change in conformation of the terminal glucose residue from chair to twisted boat. The geometry of the pocket is not, however, well suited for cleavage of 1,4-glycosidic linkages. A second glucose site was identified at the entrance to the pocket, sandwiched between two antiparallel phenylalanine side-chains. This aromatic entrance-way must not only direct substrate into the pocket but also may act as a clamp for an acceptor molecule participating in the transfer reaction. 
21184840	20101228	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Functional analysis of the fungal/plant class chitinase family in Aspergillus fumigatus.	A quintuple mutant was constructed to delete the entire family of the fungal/plant (class III) chitinases of Aspergillus fumigatus. Only a limited reduction in the total chitinolytic activity was seen for the different chitinase mutants including the quintuple mutant. In spite of this reduction in chitinolytic activity, no growth or germination defects were observed in these chitinase mutants. This result demonstrated that the fungal/plant chitinases do not have an essential role in the morphogenesis of A. fumigatus. A slight diminution of the growth during autolysis was seen for the quintuple mutant suggesting that class III chitinases may play only a nutritional role during this phase of the cycle, retarding fungal death. 
12619703	20030307	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Plant chitinase as a possible biocontrol agent for use instead of chemical fungicides.	We investigated whether a plant chitinase can be used as a biocontrol agent instead of chemical fungicides by spraying chitinase E (family 19; class IV) from a yam (Dioscorea opposita Thunb) alone or together with beta-1,3-glucanase directly onto the surface of a powdery mildew infecting strawberry berries and leaves. Results were observed by eye and with a scanning electron microscope. The powdery mildew infecting the strawberries was degraded, mainly by the chitinase, and the disease did not appear again for more than 2 weeks. These results indicated that this kind of plant chitinase might be safe and biodegradable biocontrol agent for use instead of conventional fungicides. 
19389762	20090425	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Comparative proteomic analysis of an Aspergillus fumigatus mutant deficient in glucosidase I (AfCwh41).	Alpha-glucosidase I regulates trimming of the terminal alpha-1,2-glucose residue in the N-glycan processing pathway, which plays an important role in quality control systems in mammalian cells. Previously, we identified the gene encoding alpha-glucosidase I in the opportunistic human fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus, namely Afcwh41. Deletion of the Afcwh41 gene results in a severe reduction of conidia formation, a temperature-sensitive deficiency of cell wall integrity, and abnormalities of polar growth and septation. An upregulation of the genes encoding Rho-type GTPases was also observed, which suggests activation of the cell wall integrity pathway in the mutant. Using 2D gel analysis, we revealed that the proteins involved in protein assembly, ubiquitin-mediated degradation and actin organization are altered in the DeltaAfcwh41 mutant. Evidence was obtained for a defect in the polarized localization of the actin cytoskeleton in the mutant. Our results suggest that blocking of the glucose trimming in A. fumigatus might induce accumulation of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum; these misfolded proteins are probably required for cell wall synthesis and thus activate the cell wall integrity pathway, which then causes the abnormal polarity associated with the DeltaAfcwh41 mutant. 
23398882	20130213	FEBS_J.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	The chitinolytic machinery of Serratia marcescens--a model system for enzymatic degradation of recalcitrant polysaccharides.	The chitinolytic machinery of Serratia marcescens is one of the best known enzyme systems for the conversion of insoluble polysaccharides. This machinery includes four chitin-active enzymes: ChiC, an endo-acting non-processive chitinase; ChiA and ChiB, two processive chitinases moving along chitin chains in opposite directions; and CBP21, a surface-active CBM33-type lytic polysaccharide monooxygenase that introduces chain breaks by oxidative cleavage. Furthermore, an N-acetylhexosaminidase or chitobiase converts the oligomeric products from the other enzymes to monomeric N-acetylglucosamine. Here we discuss the catalytic mechanisms of these enzymes as well as the structural basis of each enzyme's specific role in the chitin degradation process. We also discuss how knowledge of this enzyme system may be extrapolated to other enzyme systems for conversion of insoluble polysaccharides, in particular conversion of cellulose by cellulases and GH61-type lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases. 
23457711	20130305	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Key aromatic residues at subsites +2 and +3 of glycoside hydrolase family 31 α-glucosidase contribute to recognition of long-chain substrates.	Glycoside hydrolase family 31 α-glucosidases (31AGs) show various specificities for maltooligosaccharides according to chain length. Aspergillus niger α-glucosidase (ANG) is specific for short-chain substrates with the highest k(cat)/K(m) for maltotriose, while sugar beet α-glucosidase (SBG) prefers long-chain substrates and soluble starch. Multiple sequence alignment of 31AGs indicated a high degree of diversity at the long loop (N-loop), which forms one wall of the active pocket. Mutations of Phe236 in the N-loop of SBG (F236A/S) decreased k(cat)/K(m) values for substrates longer than maltose. Providing a phenylalanine residue at a similar position in ANG (T228F) altered the k(cat)/K(m) values for maltooligosaccharides compared with wild-type ANG, i.e., the mutant enzyme showed the highest k(cat)/K(m) value of maltotetraose. Subsite affinity analysis indicated that modification of subsite affinities at +2 and +3 caused alterations of substrate specificity in the mutant enzymes. These results indicated that the aromatic residue in the N-loop contributes to determining the chain-length specificity of 31AGs. 
17369619	20070321	Ann_Occup_Hyg	D016428 D013485 	Modelling exposure in flour processing sectors in the Netherlands: a baseline measurement in the context of an intervention program.	Recent studies have shown that even low exposure levels to flour dust and related allergens can cause severe respiratory symptoms. In The Netherlands the Dutch government and responsible branch organizations [from bakeries (traditional & industrial), flour mills and bakery ingredient producers] signed a covenant to reduce exposure to flour dust and decrease the prevalence of work-related occupational airway disease. This paper describes a sector wide survey to measure exposure to flour dust, wheat allergens and fungal alpha-amylase. The results are being used to underpin various elements of the covenant. A dataset containing 910 personal measurements was compiled from four field studies containing information on exposure and potential determinants. The dataset represents a baseline estimate of exposure for four major flour processing sectors in The Netherlands. Exposure models for all sectors and agents were generated, based on job, tasks and company size, taking into account worker and company as random effect components. Use of control measures and, where possible, their effect were evaluated. Flour dust and enzyme exposures vary strongly between sectors. The job performed and specific tasks were identified as important determinants of exposure. The number of identified control measures during walk-through surveys, and their effectiveness in reduction of dust exposure was generally limited. The exposure models explained significant exposure variability between companies and workers but performed poorly in explaining day to day differences in exposure. The dataset serves as a baseline estimate and will be compared with a post intervention survey in the near future. The information obtained on control measures can be used to optimize the intervention scenarios that will be implemented in the different sectors by external occupational hygienists. The predictive exposure models will provide a relevant measure of average personal exposure that will be used in the sector wide health surveillance system. 
20064061	20100113	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Overexpression of a redox-regulated cutinase gene, MfCUT1, increases virulence of the brown rot pathogen Monilinia fructicola on Prunus spp.	A 4.5-kb genomic DNA containing a Monilinia fructicola cutinase gene, MfCUT1, and its flanking regions were isolated and characterized. Sequence analysis revealed that the genomic MfCUT1 carries a 63-bp intron and a promoter region with several transcription factor binding sites that may confer redox regulation of MfCUT1 expression. Redox regulation is indicated by the effect of antioxidants, shown previously to inhibit MfCUT1 gene expression in cutin-induced cultures, and in the present study, where H(2)O(2) enhanced MfCUT1 gene expression. A beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene (gusA) was fused to MfCUT1 under the control of the MfCUT1 promoter, and this construct was then used to generate an MfCUT1-GUS strain by Agrobacterium spp.-mediated transformation. The appearance of GUS activity in response to cutin and suppression of GUS activity by glucose in cutinase-inducing medium verified that the MfCUT1-GUS fusion protein was expressed correctly under the control of the MfCUT1 promoter. MfCUT1-GUS expression was detected following inoculation of peach and apple fruit, peach flower petals, and onion epidermis, and during brown rot symptom development on nectarine fruit at a relatively late stage of infection (24 h postinoculation). However, semiquantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction provided sensitive detection of MfCUT1 expression within 5 h of inoculation in both almond and peach petals. MfCUT1-GUS transformants expressed MfCUT1 transcripts at twice the level as the wild type and caused more severe symptoms on Prunus flower petals, consistent with MfCUT1 contributing to the virulence of M. fructicola. 
15345427	20040904	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Construction of a xylan-fermenting yeast strain through codisplay of xylanolytic enzymes on the surface of xylose-utilizing Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells.	Hemicellulose is one of the major forms of biomass in lignocellulose, and its essential component is xylan. We used a cell surface engineering system based on alpha-agglutinin to construct a Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast strain codisplaying two types of xylan-degrading enzymes, namely, xylanase II (XYNII) from Trichoderma reesei QM9414 and beta-xylosidase (XylA) from Aspergillus oryzae NiaD300, on the cell surface. In a high-performance liquid chromatography analysis, xylose was detected as the main product of the yeast strain codisplaying XYNII and XylA, while xylobiose and xylotriose were detected as the main products of a yeast strain displaying XYNII on the cell surface. These results indicate that xylan is sequentially hydrolyzed to xylose by the codisplayed XYNII and XylA. In a further step toward achieving the simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of xylan, a xylan-utilizing S. cerevisiae strain was constructed by codisplaying XYNII and XylA and introducing genes for xylose utilization, namely, those encoding xylose reductase and xylitol dehydrogenase from Pichia stipitis and xylulokinase from S. cerevisiae. After 62 h of fermentation, 7.1 g of ethanol per liter was directly produced from birchwood xylan, and the yield in terms of grams of ethanol per gram of carbohydrate consumed was 0.30 g/g. These results demonstrate that the direct conversion of xylan to ethanol is accomplished by the xylan-utilizing S. cerevisiae strain. 
18062653	20071208	Pol._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Biological activity of phenylpropionic acid isolated from a terrestrial Streptomycetes.	The strain ANU 6277 was isolated from laterite soil and identified as Streptomyces sp. closely related to Streptomyces albidoflavus cluster by 16S rRNA analysis. The cultural, morphological and physiological characters of the strain were recorded. The strain exhibited resistance to chloramphenicol, penicillin and streptomycin. It had the ability to produce enzymes such as amylase and chitinase. A bioactive compound was isolated from the strain at stationary phase of culture and identified as 3-phenylpropionic acid (3-PPA) by FT-IR, EI-MS, 1H NMR and 13C NMR spectral studies. It exhibited antimicrobial activity against different bacteria like Bacillus cereus, B. subtilis, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus vulgaris, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, P. flourescens, Staphylococcus aureus and some fungi including Aspergillus flavus, A. niger, Candida albicans, Fusarium oxysporum, F. udum and Penicillium citrinum. The antifungal activity of 3-PPA of the strain was evaluated in in vivo and in vitro conditions against Fusarium udum causing wilt disease in pigeon pea. The compound 3-PPA is an effective antifungal agent when compared to tricyclozole (fungicide) to control wilt caused by F. udum, but it exhibited less antifungal activity than carbendazim. 
1454688	19921001	Poult._Sci.	D016428 D013485 	The effect of enzyme supplementation on the apparent metabolizable energy and nutrient digestibilities of wheat, barley, oats, and rye for the young broiler chick.	The influence of enzyme supplementation on the bioavailable energy (AME(n)) and apparent digestibilities of lipid (ALD) and protein (APD) in young broiler chicks was examined for diets containing either wheat, hulled or hulless barley, naked oats, or spring rye. Dietary AME(n), APD, and ALD values were depressed (P less than or equal to .01) for all test grains (except hulled Bedford barley) as the inclusion rate of the grain replacing wheat increased. The antinutritives, beta-glucans (barley and oats) and pentosans (rye), had the most pronounced effect on ALD. The decreases in ALD were 43, 77, and 67% for chicks fed diets containing 70% Scout barley (hulless), Terra oats, and Gazelle rye, respectively, compared with those fed the control wheat diet. Enzyme supplementation increased (P less than or equal to .01) AME(n), APD, and ALD for all test cereals. The corresponding increases in the AME(n), of the enzyme-supplemented diets containing 70% HY320 wheat, Bedford barley, Scout barley, Terra oats, and Gazelle rye diets were 4, 7, 42, 33, and 14%, respectively, compared with their unsupplemented counterparts. Enzyme treatment also improved (P less than or equal to .01) weight gains and feed conversion efficiencies of chicks fed diets containing each of the cereals. Overall, the results demonstrate that the nutritive value of cereal grains such as wheat, barley, oats, and rye can be improved by the addition of crude fungal extracts to the diet of young chicks. 
9848143	19981216	Ukr._Biokhim._Zh.	D004740 D016428 	[Biotransformation of lignocellulse by the fungi Pleurotus floridae (Fries) Kummer and Phellinus igniarius (Linnearus:Fries) Quelet--the pathogens of white rot in trees].	The peculiarities of lignocellulose biotransformation by white-rot fungi Pleurotus floridae and Phellinus igniarius during their solid-state fermentation of wastes of oil-bearing crops processing has been studied. The dynamics of oil-bearing crops processing wastes bioconversion has been studied. It has been marked that P. floridae utilized 20% cellulose and lignin during 9 weeks and 40% lignin and 30% cellulose during all period of fermentation (19 weeks). The fungus P. igniarius utilized mainly cellulose (40% cellulose and 24% lignin in 19 weeks). Lignin-degradative capacity of P. floridae (KL = 0.57) and P. igniarius (KL = 0.34) has been quantitatively estimated. The degradation of plant biopolimers corresponded to the production of ligninolytic (laccase, Mn(2+)-dependent peroxidase,) and cellulolytic (CMC-cellulase) enzymes. The component and isoenzyme content of ligninolytic enzyme complex of fungi Pleurotus floridae and Phellinus igniarius has been determined. 
8123790	19940201	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 	Characterization of a novel cis-acting element that is responsive to a fungal elicitor in the promoter of a tobacco class I chitinase gene.	The expression of tobacco class I chitinase gene is effectively induced by a fungal elicitor in suspension-cultured tobacco cells. To identify cis-acting DNA elements that respond to the elicitor, a series of promoter constructs of the chitinase gene CHN50 fused to beta-glucuronidase gene was introduced into tobacco cultured cells. Promoter deletion analysis of the chitinase gene CHN50 in transgenic tobacco calli indicated that the DNA region between positions -788 and -345 from the start site of transcription is required for inducibility by the elicitor. A gel mobility shift assay revealed that nuclear factor(s) specifically interacted with the DNA region between positions -574 and -476. Moreover, this novel DNA-binding activity was present in nuclear extracts prepared from elicitor-treated cultured cells but not in extracts from untreated cells. Competitive binding assays and methylation interference experiments showed that the nuclear factor(s) bound specifically to a sequence of 22 bp that extended from positions -539 to -518 and contained a direct repeat of GTCAG spaced by three nucleotides. This motif is a candidate for a cis-acting elicitor-responsive element (ElRE) that is involved in the transcription of the class I chitinase gene. 
21062173	20101111	Phytopathology	D016428 D013485 D013486 	The snf1 gene of Ustilago maydis acts as a dual regulator of cell wall degrading enzymes.	Many fungal plant pathogens are known to produce extracellular enzymes that degrade cell wall elements required for host penetration and infection. Due to gene redundancy, single gene deletions generally do not address the importance of these enzymes in pathogenicity. Cell wall degrading enzymes (CWDEs) in fungi are often subject to carbon catabolite repression at the transcriptional level such that, when glucose is available, CWDE-encoding genes, along with many other genes, are repressed. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, one of the main players controlling this process is SNF1, which encodes a protein kinase. In this yeast, Snf1p is required to release glucose repression when this sugar is depleted from the growth medium. We have employed a reverse genetic approach to explore the role of the SNF1 ortholog as a potential regulator of CWDE gene expression in Ustilago maydis. We identified U. maydis snf1 and deleted it from the fungal genome. Consistent with our hypothesis, the relative expression of an endoglucanase and a pectinase was higher in the wild type than in the Δsnf1 mutant strain when glucose was depleted from the growth medium. However, when cells were grown in derepressive conditions, the relative expression of two xylanase genes was unexpectedly higher in the Δsnf1 strain than in the wild type, indicating that, in this case, snf1 negatively regulated the expression of these genes. Additionally, we found that, contrary to several other fungal species, U. maydis Snf1 was not required for utilization of alternative carbon sources. Also, unlike in ascomycete plant pathogens, deletion of snf1 did not profoundly affect virulence in U. maydis. 
21234787	20110115	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 	Cloning and sequence analysis of a novel xylanase gene, Auxyn10A, from Aspergillus usamii.	A full-length cDNA sequence, encoding a novel endo-1,4-β-D: -xylanase (AuXyn10A) of Aspergillus usamii, was obtained by using rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) methods and cloned into the pUCm-T vector, followed by DNA sequencing. The cDNA gene, designated as Auxyn10A, is 1,235 bp in length harboring 5'- and 3'-non-encoding regions, as well as an ORF of 984 bp that encodes a 19-aa signal peptide, a 6-aa propeptide and a 302-aa mature peptide with a calculated MW of 32,756 Da. The AuXyn10A displays high similarity to the xylanases of Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus kawachii and Aspergillus niger, members of the glycoside hydrolase family 10. Its three-dimensional structure was predicted using http://swiss-model.expasy.org/on-line programs based on the crystal structure of Penicillium simplicissimum xylanase (1B30_A) from the family 10. The complete DNA gene was cloned from the genomic DNA of A. usamii using conventional PCR and hairpin structure-mediated PCR techniques. The DNA gene is 2,255 bp in length, containing a 510 bp of 5'-flanking promoter region and a 1,745 bp of downstream fragment that consists of ten exons and nine short introns ranging from 52 to 62 bp. 
9006908	19970131	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	A bifunctionalized fluorogenic tetrasaccharide as a substrate to study cellulases.	Cellulases are usually classified as endoglucanases and cellobiohydrolases, but the heterogeneity of cellulose, in terms of particle size and crystallinity, has always represented a problem for the biochemical characterization of the enzymes. The synthesis of a bifunctionalized tetrasaccharide substrate suitable for measuring cellulase activity by resonance energy transfer is described. The substrate, which carries a 5-(2-aminoethylamino)-1-naphthalenesulfonate group on the non-reducing end and an indolethyl group on the reducing end, was prepared from beta-lactosyl fluoride and indolethyl beta-cellobioside by a chemoenzymatic approach using the transglycosylating activity of endoglucanase I of Humicola insolens as the key step. The bifunctionalized substrate has been used for the determination of the catalytic constants of H. insolens endoglucanase I and cellobiohydrolases I and II; this substrate could be of general use to measure the kinetic constants of cellulases able to act on oligomers of degree of polymerization <5. The data also provide evidence that cellobiohydrolases I and II are able to degrade an oligosaccharide substrate carrying non-carbohydrate substituents at both ends. 
15483746	20041016	Acta_Biochim._Biophys._Sin._(Shanghai)	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Novel cellulase profile of Trichoderma reesei strains constructed by cbh1 gene replacement with eg3 gene expression cassette.	To construct strains of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei with low cellobiohydrolases while high endoglucanase activity, the P(cbh1)-eg3-T(cbh1) cassette was constructed and the coding sequence of the cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI) gene was replaced with the coding sequence of the eg3 gene by homologous recombination. Disruption of the cbh1 gene was confirmed by PCR, Southern dot blot and Western hybridization analysis in two transformants denoted as L13 and L29. The filter paper-hydrolyzing activity of strain L29 was 60% of the parent strain Rut C30, and the CMCase activity was increased by 33%. This relatively modest increase suggested that the eg3 cDNA under the control of the cbh1 promoter was not efficiently transcribed as the wild type cbhl gene. However our results confirmed that homologous recombination could be used to construct strains of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei with novel cellulase profile. Such strains are of interest from the basic science perspective and also have potential in ustrial applications. 
3310898	19871001	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 D013486 	Pectate lyase from Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi: purification, characterization, in vitro translation of the mRNA, and involvement in pathogenicity.	Since indirect experimental evidence suggested that penetration of Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi into its host (Pisum sativum) involved pectin-degrading enzymes (W. Köller, C. R. Allan, and P. E. Kolattukudy (1982) Physiol, Plant Pathol. 20, 47-60), direct tests were made for the production of such degradative enzymes by this pathogen. When the organism was grown on pectin, a pectate lyase (EC 4.2.2.2) was released into the media. This lyase was purified to apparent homogeneity from the culture filtrate by a two-step process involving passage through DEAE-Sephacel followed by hydrophobic interaction chromatography on octyl-Sepharose. The enzyme cleaved polygalacturonate chains in an endo fashion. The molecular mass of the mature extracellular form of this enzyme was estimated to be 26 kDa. The isoelectric point of the enzyme was 8.3 and the optimum pH for activity was 9.4. Calcium was required for activity and evidence is presented that calcium probably interacts with the substrate rather than the enzyme. When antibodies prepared against this enzyme were used for Western blot analysis of the extracellular culture fluid, a single band was observed at 26 kDa. Following in vitro translation of poly(A)+ RNA, a 29-kDa precursor polypeptide was precipitated by the antibodies. Antibodies inhibited both the catalytic activity of the enzyme and the ability of the fungus to infect pea stems, strongly suggesting that this lyase is involved in pathogenesis. 
6721328	19840301	Ann._Microbiol._(Paris)	D016428 	Growth and enzyme production by Aspergillus terreus in holocellulose.	The growth of Aspergillus terreus Thom in holocellulose medium and the production of xylanase and cellulolytic enzymes were studied and compared with growth and enzyme production in xylan and cellulose powder media. Hemicellulose and cellulose were utilized simultaneously by the fungus when grown in holocellulose medium. The growth was similar in the presence of xylan and cellulose powder, but xylan was consumed earlier than cellulose. Cellulose powder, carboxymethylcellulase and xylanase activity reached a maximum earlier in cellulose powder and xylan medium than in holocellulose medium. 
16467434	20060210	Ann_Occup_Hyg	D016428 	Enzyme exposure in the British baking industry.	Enzymes are commonly used in the baking industry, as they can improve dough quality and texture and lengthen the shelf life of the final product. There is little published information highlighting exposure to enzymes (other than fungal alpha-amylase) in the baking industry, therefore the purpose of this study was to identify antibodies and develop assays for the measurement of a variety of such enzymes in samples of airborne flour dust. Polyclonal antibodies to bacterial amylase, glucose oxidase and amyloglucosidase were identified and developed into ELISA assays. The assays showed limited cross-reactivity with other enzymes commonly used in the baking industry. We measured levels of airborne enzymes in 195 personal air samples taken from a sample of 55 craft baking establishments. We were able to detect amyloglucosidase in 9% (16/184) of the samples, fungal alpha-amylase in 6% (11/171), bacterial alpha-amylase in 7% (13/195). However, we were unable to detect glucose oxidase in any of the samples. Measurements for protease enzymes were not carried out. Median levels in detectable samples of amyloglucosidase, fungal alpha-amylase and bacterial amylase were similar at 10.3, 5.3 and 5.9 ng/m(3), respectively. These figures represent the total enzyme protein (active and inactive) measured. There are few data in the literature regarding sensitization and exposure-response relationships to these enzymes, and indeed there is often a lack of information within the industry as to the precise enzyme content of particular baking ingredients. As a precautionary measure, all enzymes are regarded as having the potential to cause respiratory sensitization. Consequently, exposures need to be controlled to as low a level as reasonably practicable, and future investigation may highlight the importance of measuring a variety of enzyme exposures and standardizing these methodologies to inform approaches to adequate control. 
21277083	20110201	J._Hazard._Mater.	D016428 D013485 	Short-term stabilization of grape marc through earthworms.	The winery industry generates vast amounts of organic waste during the various stages of wine production. Among the possible methodological alternatives available for its treatment, vermicomposting is one of the best-known processes for the biological stabilization of solid organic wastes by transforming them into safer and more stabilized materials suitable for application to soil. In this study we carried out a mesocosm experiment to evaluate the effectiveness of the active phase of vermicomposting for the stabilization of grape marc, an enriched lignocellulosic by-product obtained after the grape crushing and pressing stages in wine production. For this we analysed the chemical, biochemical and microbiological properties of the product resulting from this phase, in comparison with those in a control treatment. Earthworm activity reduced the abundance of both bacterial and fungal PLFA biomarkers. Decreases in microbial activity and in protease and cellulase activities were also attributed to the presence of earthworms. The differences in microbial communities were accompanied by a reduction in the labile C pool and the cellulose content. These results indicate that earthworms played a key role in the stabilization of the grape marc in the short-term, via its effects on organic matter decomposition and microbial biomass and activity. 
8810518	19960601	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Structure and chemical composition of the cell walls from the haploid yeast and mycelial forms of Ustilago maydis.	Isolated or in vivo cell walls from the yeast and mycelial forms of haploid Ustilago maydis were not stained by the normal osmium procedure for electron microscopy. KMnO4 stained mycelial walls, revealing a layered structure with a loose electron-dense layer at the cell surface, but stained only the outer surface layer of yeast walls. Walls were purified from extracts obtained by ballistic and ultrasonic disruption. Chemical analysis showed that composition of yeast and mycelial walls was similar. Yeast walls contained higher amounts of neutral sugars and protein, whereas mycelial walls contained more chitin and phosphate. No chitosan or uronic acids were detected. Higher proportions of xylose and mannose were present in yeast walls, whereas the amounts of glucose and galactose were higher in mycelial walls. Fucose, arabinose, and ribose were detected in yeast walls only. Electrophoretic patterns of proteins extracted with SDS, beta 1, 3-glucanase, or chitinase were similar in walls of both morphologies, although some differential bands were identified. Most antigenic proteins appeared in the covalently bound fraction of the wall. Some were common to both morphologies, but others were stage specific. 
21167225	20101221	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Identification of genes that enhance cellulase protein production in yeast.	In order to enhance heterologous cellulase protein production in yeast, a plasmid harboring the endoglucanase gene from Clostridium thermocellum (Ctcel8A) was used to systematically transform a homozygous diploid yeast deletion strain collection. We identified 55 deletion strains that exhibited enhanced endoglucanase activity compared with that of the wild-type strain. Genes disrupted in these strains were classified into the categories of transcription, translation, phospholipid synthesis, endosome/vacuole function, ER/Golgi function, nitrogen starvation response, and cytoskeleton. The vps3Δ and vps16Δ strains, which have deletion in genes encoding components of the class C core vacuole/endosome tethering (CORVET) complex, also exhibited enhanced β-glucosidase activity when Ctcel8A was heterologously expressed. Moreover, multiple gene deletion strains were constructed by using the vps3Δ strain. Endoglucanase activity of the resulting rav1Δvps3Δ double deletion strain was exhibited higher than that of the rav1Δ or vps3Δ strains. Our genome-wide analyses using the yeast deletion strain collection identified useful genes that allow efficient expression of cellulase. 
19747102	20090915	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of pectin lyase secreted by Penicillium citrinum.	The importance of various parameters such as sugarcane juice concentration, pH of the medium, and effects of different solid supports for maximum secretion of pectin lyase from Penicillium citrinum MTCC 8897 has been studied. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity by Sephadex G-100 and DEAE-cellulose chromatography. The molecular mass determined by SDS-PAGE was 31 kDa. The K(m) and k(cat) values were found to be 1 mg/ml and 76 sec(-1), respectively. The optimum pH of the purified pectin lyase was 9.0, though it retains activity in the pH 9.0-12.0 range when exposed for 24 h. The optimum temperature was 50 degrees C, and the pectin lyase was found to be completely stable up to 40 degrees C when exposed for 1 h. The purified pectin lyase was found efficient in retting of Linum usitatissimum, Cannabis sativa, and Crotalaria juncea. 
22076694	20111115	Microb._Ecol.	D016428 D013485 	Effects of water stress, organic amendment and mycorrhizal inoculation on soil microbial community structure and activity during the establishment of two heavy metal-tolerant native plant species.	Our aim was to examine the effect of water stress on plant growth and development of two native plant species (Tetraclinis articulata and Crithmum maritimum) and on microbial community composition and activity in the rhizosphere soil, following the addition of an organic amendment, namely sugar beet residue (SBR), and/or the inoculation with an arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus, namely Glomus mosseae, in a non-sterile heavy metal-polluted soil. The AM inoculation did not have any significant effect on plant growth of both species. In T. articulata, SBR increased shoot growth, foliar P, total phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA), fungi-related PLFA, AM fungi-related neutral lipid fatty acid, bacterial gram-positive/gram-negative PLFA ratio and the β-glucosidase and dehydrogenase activities. SBR and AM inoculation increased phosphatase activity in T. articulata plants grown under drought conditions. In both plants, there was a synergistic effect between AM inoculation and SBR on mycorrhizal colonisation under drought conditions. In C. maritimum, the increase produced by the SBR on total amounts of PLFA, bacterial gram-positive-related PLFA and bacterial gram-negative-related PLFA was considerably higher under drought conditions. Our results suggest that the effectiveness of the amendment with regard to stimulating microbial communities and plant growth was largely limited by drought, particularly for plant species with a low degree of mycorrhizal colonisation. 
23114223	20121102	FEBS_J.	D016428 D013485 	Joint X-ray crystallographic and molecular dynamics study of cellobiohydrolase I from Trichoderma harzianum: deciphering the structural features of cellobiohydrolase catalytic activity.	Aiming to contribute toward the characterization of new, biotechnologically relevant cellulolytic enzymes, we report here the first crystal structure of the catalytic core domain of Cel7A (cellobiohydrolase I) from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma harzianum IOC 3844. Our structural studies and molecular dynamics simulations show that the flexibility of Tyr260, in comparison with Tyr247 from the homologous Trichoderma reesei Cel7A, is enhanced as a result of the short side-chains of adjacent Val216 and Ala384 residues and creates an additional gap at the side face of the catalytic tunnel. T. harzianum cellobiohydrolase I also has a shortened loop at the entrance of the cellulose-binding tunnel, which has been described to interact with the substrate in T. reesei Cel7A. These structural features might explain why T. harzianum Cel7A displays higher k(cat) and K(m) values, and lower product inhibition on both glucoside and lactoside substrates, compared with T. reesei Cel7A. 
1732062	19920110	Cell	D016428 	A molecular mechanism for combinatorial control in yeast: MCM1 protein sets the spacing and orientation of the homeodomains of an alpha 2 dimer.	DNA recognition sequences for dimeric proteins typically contain two types of information. The first is the DNA sequence of each half-site, and the second is the arrangement of these half-sites. We show that dimers of the yeast homeodomain protein alpha 2, although able to read the first type of information, lack the ability to assess the second type. Rather, alpha 2 dimers bind with equal affinity to artificial operators in which the two half-sites are arrayed as inverted repeats, as direct repeats, or as everted (inside-out) repeats. We show that a second protein-MCM1-sets the exact spacing and orientation of the homeodomains in the alpha 2 dimer so that they accommodate only the geometry of the naturally occurring operators. These experiments show directly how the target specificity of a homeodomain protein is raised by an auxiliary protein, allowing it to distinguish the biologically correct operators from closely related sequences in the cell. 
8940152	19961206	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	Two sporulation-specific chitin deacetylase-encoding genes are required for the ascospore wall rigidity of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The formation of the ascospore wall of Saccharomyces cerevisiae requires the coordinate activity of enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of its components such as chitosan, the deacetylated form of chitin. We have cloned the CDA1 and CDA2 genes which together account for the total chitin deacetylase activity of the organism. We have shown that expression of these genes is restricted to a distinct time period during sporulation. The two genes are functionally redundant, each contributing equally to the total chitin deacetylase activity. Diploids disrupted for both genes sporulate as efficiently as wild type cells, and the resulting mutant spores are viable under standard laboratory conditions. However, they fail to emit the natural fluorescence of yeast spores imparted by the dityrosine residues of the outermost ascospore wall layer. Moreover, mutant spores are relatively sensitive to hydrolytic enzymes, ether, and heat shock, a fact that underscores the importance of the CDA genes for the proper formation of the ascospore wall. 
21223393	20110113	Plant_J.	D016428 D013485 	Protein trafficking to the cell wall occurs through mechanisms distinguishable from default sorting in tobacco.	The secretory pathway in plants involves sustained traffic to the cell wall, as matrix components, polysaccharides and proteins reach the cell wall through the endomembrane system. We studied the secretion pattern of cell-wall proteins in tobacco protoplasts and leaf epidermal cells using fluorescent forms of a pectin methylesterase inhibitor protein (PMEI1) and a polygalacturonase inhibitor protein (PGIP2). The two most representative protein fusions, secGFP-PMEI1 and PGIP2-GFP, reached the cell wall by passing through ER and Golgi stacks but using distinct mechanisms. secGFP-PMEI1 was linked to a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor and stably accumulated in the cell wall, regulating the activity of the endogenous pectin methylesterases (PMEs) that are constitutively present in this compartment. A mannosamine-induced non-GPI-anchored form of PMEI1 as well as a form (PMEI1-GFP) that was unable to bind membranes failed to reach the cell wall, and accumulated in the Golgi stacks. In contrast, PGIP2-GFP moved as a soluble cargo protein along the secretory pathway, but was not stably retained in the cell wall, due to internalization to an endosomal compartment and eventually the vacuole. Stable localization of PGIP2 in the wall was observed only in the presence of a specific fungal endopolygalacturonase ligand in the cell wall. Both secGFP-PMEI1 and PGIP2-GFP sorting were distinguishable from that of a secreted GFP, suggesting that rigorous and more complex controls than the simple mechanism of bulk flow are the basis of cell-wall growth and differentiation. 
22514894	20120421	Pak._J._Biol._Sci.	D016428 	Protein improvement in Gari by the use of pure cultures of microorganisms involved in the natural fermentation process.	The ability of microorganisms involved in cassava mash fermentation to produce and improve protein value by these microorganisms during fermentation was studied. Standard microbiological procedures were used to isolate, identify and determine the numbers of the organisms. Alcaligenes faecalis, Lactobacillus plantarum, Bacillus subtilis, Leuconostoc cremoris, Aspergillus niger, A. tamari, Geotrichum candidum and Penicillium expansum were isolated and identified from cassava waste water while standard analytical methods were used to determine the ability of the isolates to produce linamarase and the proximate composition, pH and titrable acidity of the fermenting mash. The linamarase activity of the isolates ranged from 0.0416 to 0.2618 micromol mL(-1) nmol(-1). Bacillus subtilis, A. niger, A. tamari and P. expansum did not express any activity for the enzyme. Protein content of mash fermented with mixed fungal culture had the highest protein value (15.4 mg/g/dry matter) while the raw cassava had the least value (2.37 mg/g/dry matter). The naturally fermented sample had the least value for the fermented samples (3.2 mg/g/dry matter). Carbohydrate and fat contents of naturally fermented sample were higher than values obtained from the other fermented samples. Microbial numbers of the sample fermented with mixed bacterial culture was highest and got to their peak at 48 h (57 x 10(8) cfu g(-1)). pH decreased with increase in fermentation time with the mash fermented by the mixed culture of fungi having the lowest pH of 4.05 at the end of fermentation. Titrable acidity increased with increase in fermentation time with the highest value of 1.32% at 96 h of fermentation produced by the mixed culture of fungi. Thus fermentation with the pure cultures significantly increased the protein content of mash. 
20096097	20100126	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 	Isolation, characterization and heterologous expression of a novel chitosanase from Janthinobacterium sp. strain 4239.	Chitosanases (EC 3.2.1.132) hydrolyze the polysaccharide chitosan, which is composed of partially acetylated beta-(1,4)-linked glucosamine residues. In nature, chitosanases are produced by a number of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, as well as by fungi, probably with the primary role of degrading chitosan from fungal and yeast cell walls for carbon metabolism. Chitosanases may also be utilized in eukaryotic cell manipulation for intracellular delivery of molecules formulated with chitosan as well as for transformation of filamentous fungi by temporal modification of the cell wall structures.However, the chitosanases used so far in transformation and transfection experiments show optimal activity at high temperature, which is incompatible with most transfection and transformation protocols. Thus, there is a need for chitosanases, which display activity at lower temperatures. This paper describes the isolation of a chitosanase-producing, cold-active bacterium affiliated to the genus Janthinobacterium. The 876 bp chitosanase gene from the Janthinobacterium strain was isolated and characterized. The chitosanase was related to the Glycosyl Hydrolase family 46 chitosanases with Streptomyces chitosanase as the closest related (64% amino acid sequence identity). The chitosanase was expressed recombinantly as a periplasmic enzyme in Escherichia coli in amounts about 500 fold greater than in the native Janthinobacterium strain. Determination of temperature and pH optimum showed that the native and the recombinant chitosanase have maximal activity at pH 5-7 and at 45 degrees C, but with 30-70% of the maximum activity at 10 degrees C and 30 degrees C, respectively. A novel chitosanase enzyme and its corresponding gene was isolated from Janthinobacterium and produced recombinantly in E. coli as a periplasmic enzyme. The Janthinobacterium chitosanase displayed reasonable activity at 10 degrees C to 30 degrees C, temperatures that are preferred in transfection and transformation experiments. 
20227480	20100316	Microb._Pathog.	D016428 D013485 	Functional analysis of pcpme6 from oomycete plant pathogen Phytophthora capsici.	The Phytophthora capsici inflicts damage on numerous crop plants by secreting a series of pectinase including pectin methylesterase (PME). We identified a PME gene (pcpme6) from a genomic library of a highly virulent P. capsici strain SD33 which had an encoded a polypeptide of 348 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 38.18 kDa. We also confirmed that pcpme6 was increasingly expressed during symptom development following P. capsici infection of pepper leaves. The wild-type protein (PCPME6) ca. 50 kDa was obtained from pcpme6 expression, and PME activity trend in PCPME6-treated pepper leaves increased with symptom development. PCPME6 degraded leaf cell walls, resulting in the production of necrotic lesions. Mutation of Asp residues in active sites within pcpme6 affected PCPME6 activity and its virulence on pepper leaves. Results show that pcpme6 is a gene within the pme gene family that is important for pathogenesis of P. capsici on pepper. 
8215374	19930901	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013486 	DNA sequences and expression in Streptomyces lividans of an exoglucanase gene and an endoglucanase gene from Thermomonospora fusca.	Two genes encoding cellulases E1 and E4 from Thermomonospora fusca have been cloned in Escherichia coli, and their DNA sequences have been determined. Both genes were introduced into Streptomyces lividans, and the enzymes were purified from the culture supernatants of transformants. E1 and E4 were expressed 18- and 4-fold higher, respectively, in S. lividans than in E. coli. Thin-layer chromatography of digestion products showed that E1 digests cellotriose, cellotetraose, and cellopentaose to cellobiose and a trace of glucose. E4 is poor at degrading cellotriose and cleaves cellopentaose to cellotetraose and glucose or cellotriose and cellobiose. It readily cleaves cellotetraose to cellobiose. E1 shows 59% identity to Cellulomonas fumi CenC in a 689-amino-acid overlap, and E4 shows 80% identity to the N terminus of C. fimi CenB in a 441-amino-acid overlap; all of these proteins are members of cellulase family E. Alignment of the amino acid sequences of Clostridium thermocellum celD, E1, E4, and four other members of family E demonstrates a clear relationship between their catalytic domains, although there is as little as 25% identity between some of them. Residues in celD that have been identified by site-directed mutagenesis and chemical modification to be important for catalytic activity are conserved in all seven proteins. The catalytic domains of E1 and E4 are not similar to those of T. fusca E2 or E5, but all four enzymes share similar cellulose-binding domains and have the same 14-bp inverted repeat upstream of their initiation codons. This sequence has been identified previously as the binding site for a protein that regulates induction. 
21736263	20110709	Ann_Agric_Environ_Med	D016428 D016454 	A possible role of chitin in the pathogenesis of asthma and allergy.	Chitin is the second most abundant polysaccharide in the world; it is found in insects, parasites and fungi. Chitinases break down chitin, and are a part of the defence mechanism against chitin-containing parasites in lower life forms. This review is based on the results of PubMed-searches using the search-terms: chitin, chitinase, allergy and asthma. Research in murine models has proved that chitin is a size-dependent microbial-associated molecular pattern, with the ability to induce an immunological response via pattern recognition receptors. Medium-sized chitin micro-particles (CMPs) have been shown to induce inflammation, while small-sized CMPs reduce inflammation. The amount of acidic mammalian chitinase correlates with asthma, and the enzyme has been shown to induce chemokine secretion in murine lungs. The high prevalence of asthma among people working with chitinous substances, such as crabs and fungi, supports the hypothesis that chitin might be an allergen playing a role of significance in the development of asthma. This new knowledge about chitin and chitinases, combined with the hygiene-hypothesis, may contribute to a model for the pathogenesis of allergic conditions where chitin and chitinases are potential therapeutic targets. 
19136572	20090113	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 D013486 	The G-alpha protein GNA3 of Hypocrea jecorina (Anamorph Trichoderma reesei) regulates cellulase gene expression in the presence of light.	Although the enzymes enabling Hypocrea jecorina (anamorph Trichoderma reesei) to degrade the insoluble substrate cellulose have been investigated in some detail, little is still known about the mechanism by which cellulose signals its presence to the fungus. In order to investigate the possible role of a G-protein/cyclic AMP signaling pathway, the gene encoding GNA3, which belongs to the adenylate cyclase-activating class III of G-alpha subunits, was cloned. gna3 is clustered in tandem with the mitogen-activated protein kinase gene tmk3 and the glycogen phosphorylase gene gph1. The gna3 transcript is upregulated in the presence of light and is almost absent in the dark. A strain bearing a constitutively activated version of GNA3 (gna3QL) exhibits strongly increased cellulase transcription in the presence of the inducer cellulose and in the presence of light, whereas a gna3 antisense strain showed delayed cellulase transcription under this condition. However, the gna3QL mutant strain was unable to form cellulases in the absence of cellulose. The necessity of light for stimulation of cellulase transcription by GNA3 could not be overcome in a mutant which expressed gna3 under control of the constitutive gpd1 promoter also in darkness. We conclude that the previously reported stimulation of cellulase gene transcription by light, but not the direct transmission of the cellulose signal, involves the function and activation of GNA3. The upregulation of gna3 by light is influenced by the light modulator ENVOY, but GNA3 itself has no effect on transcription of the light regulator genes blr1, blr2, and env1. Our data for the first time imply an involvement of a G-alpha subunit in a light-dependent signaling event in fungi. 
9043114	19970201	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D003160 D016428 	Phenotype in Candida albicans of a disruption of the BGL2 gene encoding a 1,3-beta-glucosyltransferase.	The BGL2 gene encodes a unique 1,3-beta-glucosyltransferase (Bgl2p) present in the cell wall of Candida albicans and other fungi. Although believed to be involved in cell wall assembly, disruption of the gene in saccharomyces cerevisiae showed no apparent phenotype. We performed sequential disruptions of the BGL2 loci in a homozygous ura3 clinical isolate of C. albicans using the URA3 blaster method, in order to investigate the role of Bgl2p in this dimorphic, pathogenic fungus. Strain CACW-1 contained disruptions of both homologues of the BGL2 gene and lacked Bgl2p, as assessed by protein extraction, SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis, and enzyme assay; however, residual non-Bgl2p transferase activity was detected. CACW-1 was attenuated in virulence for mice when compared to an isogenic parent strain, and fewer organisms were recovered from the kidneys of infected animals. Additional phenotypic changes included: (1) a dramatic increase in the sensitivity to the chitin synthesis inhibitor nikkomycin Z when CACW-1 cells were incubated at 37 or 42 degrees C; (2) an 8.7 +/- 1.6% slower growth rate at 37 degrees C for CACW-1 when compared to its isogenic parent; and (3) aggregation of CACW-1 cells during stationary phase and/or incubation of stationary phase cells in phosphate buffer. Characterization of SDS-extracted cell walls did not reveal any significant differences in the levels of 1,3-beta- or 1,6-beta-glucan. These data reveal that loss of Bgl2p does have a phenotype in C. albicans, and indicate that (1) loss of Bgl2p function renders cells more dependent on chitin for wall integrity, and attenuates virulence (probably due to subtle changes in wall structure), and (2) that additional 1,3-beta-glucosyltransferases are present in the C. albicans BGL2 disruptant. 
21569082	20110517	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Effects of xylan and starch on secretome of the basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium grown on cellulose.	Lignocellulosic biomass contains cellulose and xylan as major structural components, and starch as a storage polysaccharide. In the present study, we have used comparative secretomic analysis to examine the effects of xylan and starch on the expression level of proteins secreted by the basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium grown on cellulose,. Forty-seven spots of extracellular proteins expressed by P. chrysosporium separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis were identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Addition of starch to the cellulolytic culture did not affect fungal growth significantly, but did decrease the production of total extracellular enzymes, including cellulases and xylanases. In contrast, addition of xylan increased mycelial volume and the production of extracellular proteins. Xylan increased synthesis of several glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 10 putative endoxylanases and a putative glucuronoyl esterase belonging to carbohydrate esterase family 15, for which plant cell wall xylan may be a substrate. Moreover, cellobiose dehydrogenase and GH family 61 proteins, which are known to promote cellulose degradation, were also increased in the presence of xylan. These enzymes may contribute to degradation by the fungus of not only cellulose but also complex carbohydrate components of the plant cell wall. 
19685157	20090818	Mol._Biol._Rep.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and characterization of a chitinase gene Lbchi31 from Limonium bicolor and identification of its biological activity.	Chitinases are digestive enzymes that break down glycosidic bonds in chitin. In the current study, an endochitinase gene Lbchi31 was cloned from Limonium bicolor. The cDNA sequence of Lbchi31 was 1,107 bp in length, encoding 322 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 31.7 kDa. Clustal analysis showed that there was a highly conserved chitin-binding domains in Lbchi31 protein, containing four sulfide bridges. The Lbchi31 gene was inserted into the pPIC9 vector and transferred into yeast Pichia pastoris GS115 and KM71 for heterologous expression. The transformant harboring the Lbchi31 gene showed a clearly visible protein band with a molecular mass of more than 31 kDa in the SDS-PAGE gel, indicating that it had been translated in P. pastoris. Enzyme characterization showed that the optimal reaction condition for chitinase LbCHI31 activity was: 40 degrees C, pH of 5.0 and 5 mmol l(-1) of Mn(2+). The maximum enzyme activity was 0.88 U ml(-1) following exposure to the cell wall chitin of Valsa sordida. The LbCHI31 enzyme can efficiently degrade cell wall chitin of the phytopathogenic Rhizoctonia solani, Fusarium oxysporum, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, V. sordida, Septoria tritici and Phytophthora sojae, suggesting that it has the biocontrol function to fungal phytopathogen. 
18375004	20080401	J._Microbiol._Methods	D016428 D013485 D023361 	Real-time PCR for detection and quantification of the biocontrol agent Trichoderma atroviride strain SC1 in soil.	Trichoderma (Hypocreales, Ascomycota) is a widespread genus in nature and several Trichoderma species are used in industrial processes and as biocontrol agents against crop diseases. It is very important that the persistence and spread of microorganisms released on purpose into the environment are accurately monitored. Real-time PCR methods for genus/species/strain identification of microorganisms are currently being developed to overcome the difficulties of classical microbiological and enzymatic methods for monitoring these populations. The aim of the present study was to develop and validate a specific real-time PCR-based method for detecting Trichoderma atroviride SC1 in soil. We developed a primer and TaqMan probe set constructed on base mutations in an endochitinase gene. This tool is highly specific for the detection and quantification of the SC1 strain. The limits of detection and quantification calculated from the relative standard deviation were 6000 and 20,000 haploid genome copies per gram of soil. Together with the low throughput time associated with this procedure, which allows the evaluation of many soil samples within a short time period, these results suggest that this method could be successfully used to trace the fate of T. atroviride SC1 applied as an open-field biocontrol agent. 
10742225	20000401	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Imaging the enzymatic digestion of bacterial cellulose ribbons reveals the endo character of the cellobiohydrolase Cel6A from Humicola insolens and its mode of synergy with cellobiohydrolase Cel7A.	Dispersed cellulose ribbons from bacterial cellulose were subjected to digestion with cloned Cel7A (cellobiohydrolase [CBH] I) and Cel6A (CBH II) from Humicola insolens either alone or in a mixture and in the presence of an excess of beta-glucosidase. Both Cel7A and Cel6A were effective in partially converting the ribbons into soluble sugars, Cel7A being more active than Cel6A. In combination, these enzymes showed substantial synergy culminating with a molar ratio of approximately two-thirds Cel6A and one-third Cel7A. Ultrastructural transmission electron microscopy (TEM) observations indicated that Cel7A induced a thinning of the cellulose ribbons, whereas Cel6A cut the ribbons into shorter elements, indicating an endo type of action. These observations, together with the examination of the digestion kinetics, indicate that Cel6A can be classified as an endo-processive enzyme, whereas Cel7A is essentially a processive enzyme. Thus, the synergy resulting from the mixing of Cel6A and Cel7A can be explained by the partial endo character of Cel6A. A preparation of bacterial cellulose ribbons appears to be an appropriate substrate, superior to Valonia or bacterial cellulose microcrystals, to visualize directly by TEM the endo-processivity of an enzyme such as Cel6A. 
12226497	20020913	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Isolation and characterization of a novel ribosome-inactivating protein from root cultures of pokeweed and its mechanism of secretion from roots.	Ribosome-inactivating proteins are N-glycosidases that remove a specific adenine from the sarcin/ricin loop of the large rRNA, thus arresting protein synthesis at the translocation step. In the present study, a novel type I ribosome-inactivating protein, termed PAP-H, was purified from Agrobacterium rhizogenes-transformed hairy roots of pokeweed (Phytolacca americana). The protein was purified by anion- and cation-exchange chromatography. PAP-H has a molecular mass of 29.5 kD as detected by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and its isoelectric point was determined to be 7.8. Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) ribosomes incubated with PAP-H released the 360-nucleotide diagnostic fragment from the 26S rRNA upon aniline treatment, an indication of its ribosome-inactivating activity. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, PAP-H was found to be located in the cell walls of hairy roots and root border cells. PAP-H was determined to be constitutively secreted as part of the root exudates, with its secretion enhanced by a mechanism mediated by ethylene induction. Purified PAP-H did not show in vitro antifungal activity against soil-borne fungi. In contrast, root exudates containing PAP-H as well as additional chitinase, beta-1,3-glucanase, and protease activities did inhibit the growth of soil-borne fungi. We found that PAP-H depurinates fungal ribosomes in vitro and in vivo, suggesting an additive mechanism that enables PAP-H to penetrate fungal cells. 
8542549	19951201	Can._J._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparative study of two trehalase activities from Fusarium oxysporum var. lini.	Acid and neutral trehalase activities (optimum pH of 4.6 and 6.8, respectively) from Fusarium oxysporum var. lini were studied separately through partial isolation by ammonium sulfate precipitation followed by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel for neutral enzyme, or using some of their differential properties. Acid activity was unaffected by 1 mM of Ca2+, Mg2+, Mn2+, Ba2+, or EDTA. Contrarily, the neutral enzyme was activated by Ca2+ with an apparent Ka of 0.15 mM; was inhibited by EDTA, Zn2+, Hg2+, or Mg(2+)-ATP; and showed an increase in activity by the raise of buffer ionic strength or by the addition of 100 mM KCl. Acid and neutral enzymes have, respectively, an apparent optimum temperature of 45 and 30 degrees C, an apparent Km for trehalose of 0.43 and 8.45 mM, and an apparent M(r) of 160,000 and 100,000 (by glycerol gradient ultracentrifugation). Acid trehalase was specifically inhibited by acetate buffer and more stable at 50 degrees C than the neutral enzyme. Neutral enzyme exhibited a pI of 6.2 by isoelectric focusing. Contrary to neutral trehalases from other fungi, the enzyme from Fusarium oxysporum var. lini was not activated in crude extract by treatment with Mg(2+)-ATP in the presence of cAMP and not inactivated by alkaline phosphatase from Escherichia coli. 
21585271	20110519	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	The ectopic expression of a pectin methyl esterase inhibitor increases pectin methyl esterification and limits fungal diseases in wheat.	Cell wall pectin methyl esterification can influence plant resistance because highly methyl-esterified pectin can be less susceptible to the hydrolysis by pectic enzymes such as fungal endopolygalacturonases (PG). Pectin is secreted into the cell wall in a highly methyl-esterified form and, here, is de-methyl esterified by pectin methyl esterase (PME). The activity of PME is controlled by specific protein inhibitors called PMEI; consequently, an increased inhibition of PME by PMEI might modify the pectin methyl esterification. In order to test the possibility of improving wheat resistance by modifying the methyl esterification of pectin cell wall, we have produced durum wheat transgenic lines expressing the PMEI from Actinidia chinensis (AcPMEI). The expression of AcPMEI endows wheat with a reduced endogenous PME activity, and transgenic lines expressing a high level of the inhibitor showed a significant increase in the degree of methyl esterification. These lines showed a significant reduction of disease symptoms caused by the fungal pathogens Bipolaris sorokiniana or Fusarium graminearum. This increased resistance was related to the impaired ability of these fungal pathogens to grow on methyl-esterified pectin and to a reduced activity of the fungal PG to hydrolyze methyl-esterified pectin. In addition to their importance for wheat improvement, these results highlight the primary role of pectin despite its low content in the wheat cell wall. 
21861877	20110825	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Enzyme production by filamentous fungi: analysis of the secretome of Trichoderma reesei grown on unconventional carbon source.	Spent hydrolysates from bioethanolic fermentation processes based on agricultural residues have potential as an abundant and inexpensive source of pentose sugars and acids that could serve as nutrients for industrial enzyme-producing microorganisms, especially filamentous fungi. However, the enzyme mixtures produced in such media are poorly defined. In this study, the secretome of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 grown either on a spent hydrolysate model medium (SHMM) or on a lactose-based standard medium (LBSM) was explored using proteomics. Our results show that both the SHMM and LBSM serve as excellent growth media for T. reesei Rut C-30. In total, 52 protein spots on 2-D gels were identified by using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) and electrospray ionization liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-LC MS/MS). As expected, a considerable number of the identified proteins were related to the degradation of lignocellulosic biomass. The enzyme production profiles in the two media were similar, but β-glucosidase and β-galactosidase were only produced in LBSM. The main cellobiohydrolases (Cel7A/Cel6A) and endoglucanases (Cel7B/Cel5A) were identified in both media and the cellobiohydrolases, i.e. Cel7A and Cel6A, were the most abundant cellulolytic enzymes. Moreover, both media can also serve as a potent inducer of xylanolytic enzymes. Several key enzymes involved in sugar assimilation and regulation of cellulase formation were identified, and were found to be differentially expressed in the two growth media. This study not only provides a catalogue of the prevalent proteins secreted by T. reesei in the two media, but the results also suggest that production of hydrolytic enzymes using unconventional carbon sources, such as components in spent hydrolysates, deserves further attention in the future. 
19137718	20090114	Mikrobiologiia	D003160 D016428 D013485 	[The study of mycolytic properties of aerobic spore-forming bacteria producing extracellular chitinases].	The mycolytic activity of 27 strains of antagonistic bacilli belonging to two taxonomic groups (18 strains of Bacillus subtilis and 9 strains of Paenibacillus ehimensis) capable of induced synthesis of chitinolytic enzymes was studied. Most of the B. subtilis strains neither displayed visible mycolytic effects on the phytopathogenic fungus Bipolaris sorokiniana in vitro, nor produced chitinases in the presence of an auto-claved mycelium. On the contrary, P. ehimensis strains grown under conditions favorable for induction of chitinases and other hydrolases exhibited a pronounced lytic effect on B. sorokiniana and actively grew by utilizing mycelium as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen. Comparison of the mycolytic activities of extracellular hydrolases in the studied strains demonstrated low correlation between chitinase production and the ability of the strains to degrade the cell walls of B. sorokiniana. Characterization of enzyme profiles in the studied strains revealed that beta-1,3-glucanase was a more significant factor than chitinase for determining the mycolytic potential of bacteria and their ability to utilize the mycelium of phytopathogenic fungi as a growth substrate. 
18024570	20071121	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Dothideomycete plant interactions illuminated by genome sequencing and EST analysis of the wheat pathogen Stagonospora nodorum.	Stagonospora nodorum is a major necrotrophic fungal pathogen of wheat (Triticum aestivum) and a member of the Dothideomycetes, a large fungal taxon that includes many important plant pathogens affecting all major crop plant families. Here, we report the acquisition and initial analysis of a draft genome sequence for this fungus. The assembly comprises 37,164,227 bp of nuclear DNA contained in 107 scaffolds. The circular mitochondrial genome comprises 49,761 bp encoding 46 genes, including four that are intron encoded. The nuclear genome assembly contains 26 classes of repetitive DNA, comprising 4.5% of the genome. Some of the repeats show evidence of repeat-induced point mutations consistent with a frequent sexual cycle. ESTs and gene prediction models support a minimum of 10,762 nuclear genes. Extensive orthology was found between the polyketide synthase family in S. nodorum and Cochliobolus heterostrophus, suggesting an ancient origin and conserved functions for these genes. A striking feature of the gene catalog was the large number of genes predicted to encode secreted proteins; the majority has no meaningful similarity to any other known genes. It is likely that genes for host-specific toxins, in addition to ToxA, will be found among this group. ESTs obtained from axenic mycelium grown on oleate (chosen to mimic early infection) and late-stage lesions sporulating on wheat leaves were obtained. Statistical analysis shows that transcripts encoding proteins involved in protein synthesis and in the production of extracellular proteases, cellulases, and xylanases predominate in the infection library. This suggests that the fungus is dependant on the degradation of wheat macromolecular constituents to provide the carbon skeletons and energy for the synthesis of proteins and other components destined for the developing pycnidiospores. 
6413830	19830501	Mikrobiologiia	D004740 D016428 	[Synthesis and secretion of the components of the cellulase complex in Aspergillus terreus].	Aspergillus terreus was found to have two functionally different cellobiases. One of them is excreted into the surrounding medium and is a part of the cellulase complex. The second one is an endocellular (or periplasmic) enzyme. It is distinguished by its stability, the time of mRNA operation, the sorption of cell debris; moreover, its activity does not depend on changes in the parameters of the medium when the incubation mixture is replaced and the surface is treated with 0.5 M NaCl. The synthesis of all components in the cellulase complex of A. terreus is coordinated. The time it takes the mRNAs for cellulases to function does not exceed 2 h. A close correlation exists between the synthesis and secretion of polysaccharases (endoglucanases and exoglucosidases) in A. terreus. Cellobiase is adsorbed by the fungal cell wall owing to charge interactions; its desorption depends on the ionic strength and the pH of the medium. 
22351180	20120222	Methods_Mol._Biol.	D016428 	The use of genomics and metabolomics methods to quantify fungal endosymbionts and alkaloids in grasses.	The association of plants with endosymbiotic micro-organisms poses a particular challenge to metabolomics studies. The presence of endosymbionts can alter metabolic profiles of plant tissues by introducing non-plant metabolites such as fungal specific alkaloids, and by metabolic interactions between the two organisms. An accurate quantification of the endosymbiont and its metabolites is therefore critical for studies of interactions between the two symbionts and the environment.Here, we describe methods that allow the quantification of the ryegrass Neotyphodium lolii fungal endosymbiont and major alkaloids in its host plant Lolium perenne. Fungal concentrations were quantified in total genomic DNA (gDNA) isolated from infected plant tissues by quantitative PCR (qPCR) using primers specific for chitinase A from N. lolii. To quantify the fungal alkaloids, we describe LC-MS based methods which provide coverage of a wide range of alkaloids of the indolediterpene and ergot alkaloid classes, together with peramine. 
10517830	19991012	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	The enzymatic activity of fungal xylanase is not necessary for its elicitor activity.	Fungal xylanases from Trichoderma spp. are potent elicitors of defense responses in various plants. To determine whether enzymatic activity is necessary for elicitor activity, we used site-directed mutagenesis to reduce the catalytic activity of xylanase II from Trichoderma reesei. For this, the glutamic acid residue at position 210, which is part of the active center in this family of enzymes, was changed to either aspartic acid (E210D) or serine (E210S). Wild-type and mutated forms of xylanase II were expressed in yeast cells and purified to homogeneity. Compared with the wild-type form of xylanase II, E210D had >100-fold and E210S 1,000-fold lower enzymatic activity. In contrast, these mutated forms showed no comparable drop in elicitor activity. They fully stimulated medium alkalinization and ethylene biosynthesis in suspension-cultured tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) cells, as well as hypersensitive necrosis in leaves of tomato and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants. These results provide direct evidence that enzyme activity is not necessary for elicitor activity of fungal xylanase. 
18045433	20071130	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and phylogenetic analysis of the chitinase gene from the facultative pathogen Paecilomyces lilacinus.	To PCR-amplify the full-length genomic-encoding sequence for one chitinase from the facultative fungal pathogen Paecilomyces lilacinus, analyse the DNA and deduced amino acid sequences and compare the amino acid sequence with chitinases reported from mycopathogens, entomopathogens and nematopathogens. The encoding gene (designated as PLC) was isolated using the degenerate PCR primers and the DNA-Walking method. The gene is 1458 bp in length and contains three putative introns. A number of sequence motifs that might play a role in its regulation and function had also been found. Alignment of the translation product (designated as Plc, molecular mass of 45.783 kDa and pI of 5.65) with homologous sequences from other species showed that Plc belongs to Class V chitinase within the glycosyl hydrolase family 18. The phylogenetic and molecular evolutionary analysis using mega (Molecular Evolutionary Genetics Analysis) indicated that these chitinases from mycopathogens, entomopathogens and nematopathogens, the majority of which belong to glycosyl hydrolase family 18, were clustered into two well-supported subgroups corresponding to ascomycetes fungal and nonfungal chitinases (bacteria, baculoviruses). Our study showed that chitinases from mycoparasitic, entomopathogenic and nematophagous fungi are closely related to each other and reaffirmed the hypothesis that baculovirus chitinase is most likely to be of a bacterial origin - acquired by gene transfer. Bacterial and baculoviral chitinases in our study are potential pathogenicity factors; however, we still cannot ascribe any specific function to those chitinases from the fungi. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing the chitinase gene and its translation product from Paecilomyces lilacinus, which constitutes the largest number of formulated biological nematicides reported so far, this is also the first study to analyse and resolve the phylogenetic and molecular evolutionary relationships among the chitinases produced by mycopathogens, entomopathogens and nematopathogens. 
22120123	20111129	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Fumonisin B1, a toxin produced by Fusarium verticillioides, modulates maize β-1,3-glucanase activities involved in defense response.	Fusarium verticillioides is an important pathogen in maize that causes various diseases affecting all stages of plant development worldwide. The fungal pathogen could be seed borne or survive in soil and penetrate the germinating seed. Most F. verticillioides strains produce fumonisins, which are of concern because of their toxicity to animals and possibly humans, and because they enhance virulence against seedlings of some maize genotypes. In this work, we studied the action of fumonisin B1 (FB1) on the activity of maize β-1,3-glucanases involved in plant defense response. In maize embryos, FB1 induced an acidic isoform while suppressing the activity of two basic isoforms. This acidic isoform was induced also with 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid, an analog of salicylic acid. Repression of the basic isoforms suggested a direct interaction of the enzymes with the mycotoxin as in vitro experiments showed that pure FB1 inhibited the basic β-1,3-glucanases with an IC(50) of 53 μM. When germinating maize embryos were inoculated with F. verticillioides the same dual effect on β-1,3-glucanase activities that we observed with the pure toxin was reproduced. Similar levels of FB1 were recovered at 24 h germination in maize tissue when they were treated with pure FB1 or inoculated with an FB1-producing strain. These results suggest that β-1,3-glucanases are a relevant physiological target and their modulation by FB1 might contribute to F. verticillioides colonization. 
566566	19780609	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Purification and characterization of a low molecular weight 1,4-beta-glucan glucanohydrolase from the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma viride QM 9414.	A low molecular weight 1,4-beta-glucan glucanohydrolase (endoglucanase) (1,4-(1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucan 4-glucanohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.4) has been isolated from culture filtrates of the fungus Trichoderma viride QM 9414 by a two-step procedure of gel filtration and ion-exchange chromatography. The isolated enzyme appeared homogeneous upon polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at pH 2.9, isoelectric focusing in a polyacrylamide gel slab, sedimentation equilibrium analysis and chromatography of the reduced and alkylated enzyme on a column of Sepharose 6B in 6 M guanidine - HCl. A molecular weight was calculated at approx. 20 000 and the isoelectric point was determined at pH 7.52. The purified enzyme was not a carbohydrate-containing protein. 
21442919	20110330	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D016428 	[Expression of modified oxidase of D-aminoacids of Trigonopsis variabilis in methylotrophic yeasts Pichia pastoris].	Effective recombinant strains Pichia pastoris that produce functionally active hybrid of Trigonopsis variabilis D-aminoacids bond with chitin-connecting domain of chitinase A1 of Bacillus circulans (DAOcbd) were obtained. The dependence of DAOcbd production levels from production of the number of copies of "expression cassette" integrated in the AOX1 locus of recombinant strains was studied. It was indicated that synthesized DAOcbd may be easily purified and immobilized on chitin sorbents and possessed high specific activity. Produced strains and methods of their cultivation and DAOcbd extraction may be used for development of technologies of obtaining of biocatalyzers in technological processes of obtaining of 7-aminocephalosporane acid. 
12653995	20030326	Eur._J._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Three-dimensional structures of thermophilic beta-1,4-xylanases from Chaetomium thermophilum and Nonomuraea flexuosa. Comparison of twelve xylanases in relation to their thermal stability.	The crystal structures of thermophilic xylanases from Chaetomium thermophilum and Nonomuraea flexuosa were determined at 1.75 and 2.1 A resolution, respectively. Both enzymes have the overall fold typical to family 11 xylanases with two highly twisted beta-sheets forming a large cleft. The comparison of 12 crystal structures of family 11 xylanases from both mesophilic and thermophilic organisms showed that the structures of different xylanases are very similar. The sequence identity differences correlated well with the structural differences. Several minor modifications appeared to be responsible for the increased thermal stability of family 11 xylanases: (a) higher Thr : Ser ratio (b) increased number of charged residues, especially Arg, resulting in enhanced polar interactions, and (c) improved stabilization of secondary structures involved the higher number of residues in the beta-strands and stabilization of the alpha-helix region. Some members of family 11 xylanases have a unique strategy to improve their stability, such as a higher number of ion pairs or aromatic residues on protein surface, a more compact structure, a tighter packing, and insertions at some regions resulting in enhanced interactions. 
383915	19790101	J._Nutr._Sci._Vitaminol.	D003160 D016428 	Comparative susceptibility of starch granules of double- and triple-mutants containing amylose-extender, waxy, sugary-1, sugary-2 and dull genes of maize inbred OH43 (Zea mays L.) to amylase.	Starch granules were prepared from 14 double- and 26 triple-mutants containing amylose-extender (ae), 14 double- and 18 triple-mutants containing waxy (wx), 15 double- and 20 triple-mutants containing sugary-1 (su1), 13 double- and 23 triple-mutants containing sugary-2 (su2), and 14 double- and 19 triple-mutants containing dull (du) of maize inbred Oh43 (Zea mays L.). The relative susceptibilities of these starch granules to fungal glucoamylase were determined and the starch granules were examined by scanning electron microscopy. A commercial normal maize starch was used as a control. Starch granules of the double- and triple-mutants containing su1 and su2 were digested two to eight times faster than normal. The ae gene reduced susceptibility and seems to be epistatic to su1 and su2. Starch granules of the double- and triple-mutants containing wx were digested about two times faster than normal and those containing shrunken-2 (sh2) were digested 1.2 to eight times faster than normal. Starch granules of triple-mutant combinations with opaque-2 (o2) showed digestion properties which were comparable to those of their respective monopaque double-mutant counterpart. 
16346246	19830301	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Effects of Nitrogen Supplements on Degradation of Aspen Wood Lignin and Carbohydrate Components by Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	A supplement of KH(2)PO(4), MgSO(4), CaCl(2), trace elements, and thiamine accelerated the initial rate of aspen wood decay by Phanerochaete chrysosporium but did not increase the extent of lignin degradation. Asparagine, casein hydrolysate, and urea supplements (1% added N) strongly inhibited lignin degradation and weight loss. The complex nitrogen sources peptone and yeast extract stimulated lignin degradation and weight loss. Albumen and NH(4)Cl had intermediate effects. Conversion of [C]lignin to CO(2) and water-soluble materials underestimated lignin degradation in the presence of the complex N sources. The highest ratio of lignin degradation to total weight loss and the largest increase in cellulase digestibility occurred during the decay of unsupplemented wood. Rotting of aspen wood by P. chrysosporium gives smaller digestibility increases than have been found with some other white-rot fungi. 
21293880	20110205	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D016428 D013485 	Production and activities of chitinases and hydrophobins from Lecanicillium lecanii.	The production of chitinases and hydrophobins from Lecanicillium lecanii was influenced by the cultivation method and type of carbon source. Crude enzyme obtained from solid-substrate culture presented activities of exochitinases (32 and 51 kDa), endochitinases (26 kDa), β-N-acetylhexosaminidases (61, 80, 96 and 111 kDa). Additionally, submerged cultures produced exochitinases (32 and 45 kDa), endochitinases (10 and 26 kDa) and β-N-acetylhexosaminidases (61, 96 and 111 kDa). β-N-acetylhexosaminidases activity determined in solid-substrate culture with added chitin was ca. threefold (7.58 ± 0.57 U mg(-1)) higher than submerged culture (2.73 + 0.57 U mg(-1)). Similarly, hydrophobins displayed higher activities in solid-substrate culture (627.3 ± 2 μg protein mL(-1)) than the submerged one (57.4 ± 4.7 μg protein mL(-1)). Molecular weight of hydrophobins produced in solid-substrate culture was 7.6 kDa and they displayed surface activity on Teflon. 
16468342	20060214	Sheng_Wu_Gong_Cheng_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Cloning and expressing of cellulase gene (cbh2) from thermophilic fungi Chaetomium thermophilum CT2].	Chaetomium thermophilum CT2 can produce extracellular cellulase with industrial value. We designed two degenerate primers to amplify catalytic domain sequence of cellobiohydrolase II ( CBH II). Full length of cDNA was obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA ends technologies. DNA sequencing revealed that cbh2 has an open reading frame of 1428bp, which encodes a putative polypeptide of 476 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence shows that the predicted molecular mass is 53 kD and the cbh2 consists of a fungal-type carbohydrate binding domain (CBD) separated from a catalytic domain by a linker region rich in proline/serine/threonine. PCR product consisting of the entire CBH II coding region without its signal sequences was cloned into the yeast secretive plasmid pPIC9K, which was then transformed into Pichia pastoris GS115. Highly efficient production of the cellobiohydrolase II was achieved in P. pastoris under the control of the AOX1 promoter, and the expressing level was 1.2 mg/mL by small-scale culturing. The recombinant cellobiohydrolase II was purified by using ammonium sulfate fraction, DEAE-Sepharose Fast flow chromatography. A molecular mass of the purified enzyme is 67 kD determined by SDS-PAGE and this is similar to the native cellobiohydrolase II purified from C. thermophilum CT2. The recombinant enzyme exhibited optimum catalytic activity at pH 4.0 and 50 degrees C respectively. It was thermostable at 50 degrees C and retained 50% of its original activity after 30 min at 70 d degrees C . The high level of fully active recombinant cellobiohydrolase II got from P. pastoris makes this expression system attractive for fermentor and industrial applications. 
16453672	19860301	EMBO_J.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of genes encoding two chitinase enzymes from Serratia marcescens.	Analysis of clones isolated from a cosmid DNA library indicates that the Serratia marcescens chromosome contains at least two genes, chiA and chiB, which encode distinct secreted forms of the enzyme chitinase. These genes have been characterized by inspection of chitinase activity and secreted proteins in Escherichia coli strains containing subclones of these cosmids. The two chitinase genes show no detectable homology to each other. DNA sequence analysis of one of the genes predicts an amino acid sequence with an N-terminal signal peptide typical of genes encoding secreted bacterial proteins. This gene was mutagenized by cloning a neomycin phosphotransferase gene within its coding region, and the insertion mutation was recombined into the parental S. marcescens strain. The resulting chiA mutant transconjugant showed reduced chitinase production, reduced inhibition of fungal spore germination and reduced biological control of a fungal plant pathogen. 
9291623	19970815	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Screening of fungal beta-xylanases for production of acidic xylooligosaccharides using in situ reduced 4-O-methylglucuronoxylan as substrate.	Fungal beta xylanases were screened for production of acidic xylooligomers from 4-O-methylglucuronoxylan. In situ reduced hardwood xylan was used as substrate because the products of neutral- and acidic-branched xylooligomers help define substrate specificity of the enzymes. Borohydride reduction in situ transformed 30% of 4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucopyranosyluronic acid residues into 4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucopyranosyl residues and reduced C-1 end groups in the xylan backbones. A total of ten beta-xylanase fractions from four fungi were partially purified by chromatography by anion exchange and molecular sieving, and graded qualitatively for enzymatic hydrolysis of the substrate. The yield of acidic xylooligomers was highly affected by whether alpha-glucuronidases were present in the beta-xylanase fractions. Some fractions gave free 4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucopyranosyluronic acid, but none of the enzyme fractions could release free 4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucose. Among the beta-xylanase fractions studied, xylanase II of Trichoderma viride was the best producer of aldotetraouronic acid [2-O-(4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucopyranosyluronic acid)-D-xylotriose]. The results obtained suggested that there was a difference in the steric hindrance of the branch point on fungal beta-xylanases between 4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucopyranosyl and 4-O-alpha-D-glucopyranosyluronic acid residues. 
8452541	19930301	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	The xylan-degrading enzyme system of Talaromyces emersonii: novel enzymes with activity against aryl beta-D-xylosides and unsubstituted xylans.	Talaromyces emersonii, a thermophilic aerobic fungus, produces a complete xylan-degrading enzyme system when grown on appropriate substrates. In this paper we present the physicochemical and catalytic properties of three enzymes, xylosidase (Xyl) I (M(r) 181,000; pI 8.9), II (M(r) 131,000; pI 5.3) and III (M(r) 54,200; pI 4.2). Xyl I and II appear to be dimeric and Xyl III is a single-subunit protein. All three enzymes catalyse the hydrolysis of aryl beta-D-xylosides and xylo-oligosaccharides. Xyl I is a classic beta-xylosidase (1,4-beta-D-xylan xylohydrolase; EC 3.2.1.37), and Xyl II and III are novel xylanases (endo-1,4-beta-D-xylan xylanohydrolase; EC 3.2.1.8) which we believe have not hitherto been reported. In addition to the above substrates, they also catalyse the extensive hydrolysis of unsubstituted xylans, and may have considerable biotechnological potential. The hydrolysis product profiles and bond-cleavage frequencies with various substrates are presented. 
18421590	20080419	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 	Evaluation of a Hypocrea jecorina enzyme preparation for hydrolysis of Tifton 85 bermudagrass.	Tifton 85 bermudagrass, developed at the ARS-USDA in Tifton, GA, is grown on over ten million acres in the USA for hay and forage. Of the bermudagrass cultivars, Tifton 85 exhibits improved digestibility because the ratio of ether- to ester-linked phenolic acids has been lowered using traditional plant breeding techniques. A previously developed pressurized batch hot water (PBHW) method was used to treat Tifton 85 bermudagrass for enzymatic hydrolysis. Native grass (untreated) and PBHW-pretreated material were compared as substrates for fungal cultivation to produce enzymes. Cellulase activity, measured via the filter paper assay, was higher for fungi cultivated on PBHW-pretreated grass, whereas the other nine enzyme assays produced higher activities for the untreated grass. Ferulic acid and vanillin levels increased significantly for the enzyme preparations produced using PBHW-pretreated grass and the release of these phenolic compounds may have contributed to the observed reduction in enzyme activities. Culture supernatant from Tifton 85 bermudagrass-grown fungi were combined with two commercial enzyme preparations and the enzyme activity profiles are reported. The amount of reducing sugar liberated by the enzyme mixture from Hypocrea jecorina (after 192 h incubation with untreated bermudagrass) individually or in combination with feruloyl esterase was 72.1 and 84.8%, respectively, of the commercial cellulase preparation analyzed under the same conditions. 
11142407	20010106	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Ligninolytic characteristics of Pleurotus ostreatus strain F6 and its monokaryotic protoplast derivative P19.	A stable isolate of Pleurotus ostreatus P19 differing in some morphological and physiological characteristics from its parental wild-type strain F6 was obtained via protoplast isolation during the preparation of strains with altered ligninolytic abilities. The isolate is monokaryotic, does not form clamp-connections, and produces much higher activities of enzymes involved in lignin modification (laccase, manganese peroxidase). Cellulase activity was comparable to that of wild-type strain F6, but the xylanase activity was slightly higher in isolate P19. However, this monokaryotic derivative degrades lignin at a slightly lower rate than its parental strain F6. Electron microscopy observations of wood degradation as a function of mycelium growth were performed on three zones of birch wafers delimited according to the distance from the point of inoculation. The different stages of fungal mycelium growth showed differences in the ultrastructural patterns of the decay not only between the strains P19 and F6, but also depending on the distance from the point of inoculation. This suggests a spatio-temporally controlled secretion of enzymes along the hyphae. The enhanced ability of P19 to degrade the condensed forms of lignin in middle lamellae is correlated to its higher laccase activity. 
22078737	20111115	C._R._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Transcription analysis of lignocellulolytic enzymes of Penicillium decumbens 114-2 and its catabolite-repression-resistant mutant.	Penicillium decumbens 114-2 is a fast-growing filamentous fungus which secretes a variety of lignocellulolytic enzymes. Its catabolite-repression-resistant mutant JU-A10 with high secretion capacity of cellulolytic enzymes has been used industrially for biomass hydrolysis. Transcription levels of 6 important lignocellulolytic enzymes genes (cel5A, cel6A, cel7A, cel7B, xyn10A, and xyn11A) from both strains were determined on different carbon sources (glucose, sorbose, lactose, cellobiose, cellulose, and cellulose-wheat bran), by means of a real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. For both strains, the 6 genes are coordinately regulated at transcriptional level. Glucose and cellobiose repressed whereas cellulose and cellulose-wheat bran induced expression of 6 genes in both strains. Expression levels of all genes tested in the mutant strain JU-A10 were substantially higher than those in wild-type strain 114-2 on all carbon sources. On glucose repression condition, the mutant JU-A10 appeared obviously derepressed. Lactose was first proved to have an inductive effect on lignocellulolytic enzyme genes expression at lower concentration in Penicillium spp. 
9361421	19971115	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Trehalose induces antagonism towards Pythium debaryanum in Pseudomonas fluorescens ATCC 17400.	Pseudomonas fluorescens ATCC 17400 shows in vitro activity against Pythium debaryanum under conditions of iron limitation. A lacZ reporter gene introduced by transposon mutagenesis into the P. fluorescens ATCC 17400 trehalase gene (treA) was induced by a factor released by the phytopathogen Pythium debaryanum. The induction of the lacZ gene was lost upon treatment of the Pythium supernatant with commercial trehalase. A trehalose concentration as low as 1 microM could induce the expression of treA. The mutation did not affect the wild-type potential for fungus antagonism but drastically decreased the osmotolerance of the mutant in liquid culture and suppressed the ability of P. fluorescens ATCC 17400 to utilize trehalose as a carbon source. A subsequent transposon insertion in treP, one of the trehalose phosphotransferase genes upstream of treA, silenced the lacZ gene. This double mutant restricted fungal growth only under conditions of high osmolarity, which probably results in internal trehalose accumulation. These data confirm the role of the disaccharide trehalose in osmotolerance, and they indicate its additional role as an initiator of or a signal for fungal antagonism. 
11491546	20010809	Environ._Toxicol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Effects and risk assessment of linear alkylbenzene sulfonates in agricultural soil. 1. Short-term effects on soil microbiology.	Linear alkylbenzene sulfonates (LAS) may occur in sewage sludge that is applied to agricultural soil, in which LAS can be inhibitory to biological activity. As a part of a broader risk assessment of LAS in the terrestrial environment, we tested the short-term effects of aqueous LAS on microbial parameters in a sandy agricultural soil that was incubated for up to 11 d. The assays included 10 microbial soil parameters; ethylene degradation; potential ammonium oxidation; potential dehydrogenase activity; beta-glucosidase activity; iron reduction; the populations of cellulolytic bacteria, fungi and actinomycetes; the basal soil respiration; and the phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) content. Except for beta-glucosidase activity, basal respiration, and total PLFA content, all soil parameters were sensitive to LAS, with EC10 values in the range of less than 8 to 22 mg/kg dry weight. This probably reflected a similar mode of LAS toxicity, ascribed to cell membrane interactions, and showed that sensitivity to LAS was common for various soil microorganisms. The extracellular beta-glucosidase activity was rather insensitive to LAS (ECI10, 47 mg/kg dry wt), whereas the basal soil respiration was not inhibited even at 793 mg/kg dry weight. This was interpreted as a combined response of inhibited and stimulated compartments of the microbial community. The PLFA content, surprisingly, showed no decrease even at 488 mg/kg. In conclusion, LAS inhibited specific microbial activities, although this could not be deduced from the basal respiration or the total PLFA content. The lowest EC10 values for microbial soil parameters were slightly higher than the predicted no-effect concentrations recently derived for plants and soil fauna (approximately 5 mg/kg dry wt). 
2111732	19900518	Cell	D016428 D013485 D013487 	In vivo degradation of a transcriptional regulator: the yeast alpha 2 repressor.	Metabolic instability is characteristic of regulatory proteins whose in vivo concentrations must vary as a function of time. The cell type-specific alpha 2 repressor of the yeast S. cerevisiae is shown here to have a half-life of only approximately 5 min. Each of the two structural domains of alpha 2 carries a sequence that can independently target a normally long-lived protein for rapid destruction. Moreover, these two degradation signals are shown to operate via distinct mechanisms. Mutants deficient in the degradation of alpha 2 have been isolated and found to have a number of additional defects, indicating that the pathways responsible for alpha 2 turnover include components with multiple functions. Finally, we demonstrate that a short-lived subunit of an oligomeric protein can be degraded in vivo without destabilizing other, long-lived subunits of the same protein. This subunit-specific degradation makes possible a novel type of posttranslational remodeling in which a heteromeric protein could be functionally modified by selective, degradation-mediated replacement of its subunits. 
22924408	20120829	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013486 D016454 	Novel traits of Trichoderma predicted through the analysis of its secretome.	Mycotrophic species of Trichoderma are among the most common fungi isolated from free soil, dead wood and as parasites on sporocarps of other fungi (mycoparasites). In addition, they undergo various other biotrophic associations ranging from rhizosphere colonization and endophytism up to facultative pathogenesis on such animals as roundworms and humans. Together with occurrence on a variety of less common substrata (marine invertebrates, artificial materials, indoor habitats), these lifestyles illustrate a wealthy opportunistic potential of the fungus. One tropical species, Trichoderma reesei, has become a prominent producer of cellulases and hemicellulases, whereas several other species are applied in agriculture for the biological control of phytopathogenic fungi. The sequencing of the complete genomes of the three species (T. reesei, T. virens, and T. atroviride) has led to a deepened understanding of Trichoderma lifestyle and its molecular physiology. In this review, we present the in silico predicted secretome of Trichoderma, and - in addition to the unique features of carbohydrate active enzymes - demonstrate the importance of such protein families as proteases, oxidative enzymes, and small cysteine-rich proteins, all of that received little attention in Trichoderma genetics so far. We also discuss the link between Trichoderma secretome and biology of the fungus. 
23245543	20121219	Water_Res.	D016428 	Development of a bioreactor for remediation of textile effluent and dye mixture: a plant-bacterial synergistic strategy.	The objective of the present work was to develop a plant-bacterial synergistic system for efficient treatment of the textile effluents. Decolorization of the dye Scarlet RR and a dye mixture was studied under in vitro conditions using Glandularia pulchella (Sweet) Tronc., Pseudomonas monteilii ANK and their consortium. Four reactors viz. soil, bacteria, plant and consortium were developed that were subjected for treatment of textile effluents and dye mixture. Under in vitro conditions G. pulchella and P. monteilii showed decolorization of the dye Scarlet RR (SRR) by 97 and 84%, within 72 and 96 h respectively, while their consortium showed 100% decolorization of the dye within 48 h. In case of dye mixture G. pulchella, P. monteilii and consortium-PG showed an ADMI removal of 78, 67 and 92% respectively within 96 h. During decolorization of SRR G. pulchella showed induction in the activities of enzymes lignin peroxidase and DCIP reductase while P. monteilii showed induction of laccase, DCIP reductase and tyrosinase, indicating their involvement in the dye metabolism. High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC), Fourier Transform Infra Red Spectroscopy (FTIR) and High Performance Thin Layer Chromatography (HPTLC) confirmed the biotransformation of SRR and dye mixture into different metabolites. Soil, bacteria, plant and consortium reactors performed an ADMI removal of 42, 46, 62 and 93% in the first decolorization cycle while it showed an average ADMI removal of 21, 27, 59 and 93% in the next three (second, third and fourth) decolorization cycles respectively for the dye mixture within 24 h. Consortium reactor showed an average ADMI removal of 95% within 48 and 60 h for textile effluents A and B respectively for three decolorization cycles, while it showed an average TOC, COD and BOD removal of 74, 70 and 70%, 66, 72 and 67%, and 70, 70 and 66% for three decolorization cycles of the dye mixture (second, third and fourth decolorization cycles), effluent A and effluent B respectively. Degradation of the textile effluents and dye mixture into different metabolites by the consortium reactor was confirmed using HPLC and FTIR. Phytotoxicity studies revealed the non-toxic nature of the metabolites of degradation of dye mixture, effluents A and B by consortium reactor. The developed consortial reactor system performed efficient treatment of the dye mixture and textile effluents, and can be used for treating large amounts of textile effluents when implemented as a constructed wetland by proper engineering approach. 
19076240	20081217	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization and functional analysis of the beta-1,3-glucanosyltransferase 3 of the human pathogenic fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.	The fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis causes paracoccidioidomycosis, a systemic granulomatous mycosis prevalent in Latin America. In an effort to elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in fungus cell wall assembly and morphogenesis, beta-1,3-glucanosyltransferase 3 (PbGel3p) is presented here. PbGel3p presented functional similarity to the glucan-elongating/glycophospholipid-anchored surface/pH-regulated /essential for pseudohyphal development protein families, which are involved in fungal cell wall biosynthesis and morphogenesis. The full-length cDNA and gene were obtained. Southern blot and in silico analysis suggested that there is one copy of the gene in P. brasiliensis. The recombinant PbGel3p was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and a polyclonal antibody was obtained. The PbGEL3 mRNA, as well as the protein, was detected at the highest level in the mycelium phase. The protein was immunolocalized at the surface in both the mycelium and the yeast phases. We addressed the potential role of PbGel3p in cell wall biosynthesis and morphogenesis by assessing its ability to rescue the phenotype of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gas1Delta mutant. The results indicated that PbGel3p is a cell wall-associated protein that probably works as a beta-1,3-glucan elongase capable of mediating fungal cell wall integrity. 
24412480	20140114	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	On-site enzymes produced from Trichoderma reesei RUT-C30 and Aspergillus saccharolyticus for hydrolysis of wet exploded corn stover and loblolly pine.	Cellulase production by two filamentous fungi Trichoderma reesei RUT-C30 and novel fungal strain, Aspergillus saccharolyticus on pretreated corn stover was investigated. Cellulase production was followed by the hydrolysis of two feedstocks, wet-exploded corn stover (WECS) and wet-exploded loblolly pine (WELP) by on-site produced enzyme cocktails containing cellulase from T. reesei RUT-C30 and β-glucosidase from A. saccharolyticus. The sugar yields using the on-site enzyme cocktails were compared with commercial enzymes preparations, Celluclast 1.5L and Novozym 188 at two substrate concentrations, 5% and 10% (w/w) and enzyme loading at 5 and 15 FPU/g glucan for WECS and WELP. The highest sugar yields were obtained at 5% (w/w) substrate concentration and 15 FPU/g glucan for both feedstocks. Glucose yields of 81% and 88% were obtained from on-site and commercial enzymes, respectively using WECS as feed stock. The sugar yields were 55% and 58% for WELP samples hydrolyzed with on-site and commercial enzymes, respectively. 
16097681	20050816	Guang_Pu_Xue_Yu_Guang_Pu_Fen_Xi	D004740 D016428 	[Hydrogen-bond state analysis of cellobiohydrolase I molecule from Trichoderma viride].	Hydrogen-bond states on cellobiohydrolase II (CBH II) of Trichoderma viride were analysed by laser Raman spectroscopic method used to reveal molecular normal modes of vibration character. The results indicated that hydrogen-bond ability of carbonyl oxygen-atom of amide I was raised in two types of aqueous solution samples (6.0 and 8.0 of pH value) compared to the solid sample. The variation trend of beta structure modes was similar between amide II and amide I. As far as the ability of hydrogen-bond forming is concerned, tryptophan (Trp) and tyrosine (Typ) residues are strong hydrogen proton donor in pH 6.0 and solid sample, thus proving the results of previously spatial structure analysis. By analysis of free S-H character, the -S-S- construction in Trichoderma viride mature peptide has been proved to be the same as that of Trichoderma reesei. 
20572789	20100625	Crit._Rev._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Biotechnological approaches to develop bacterial chitinases as a bioshield against fungal diseases of plants.	Fungal diseases of plants continue to contribute to heavy crop losses in spite of the best control efforts of plant pathologists. Breeding for disease-resistant varieties and the application of synthetic chemical fungicides are the most widely accepted approaches in plant disease management. An alternative approach to avoid the undesired effects of chemical control could be biological control using antifungal bacteria that exhibit a direct action against fungal pathogens. Several biocontrol agents, with specific fungal targets, have been registered and released in the commercial market with different fungal pathogens as targets. However, these have not yet achieved their full commercial potential due to the inherent limitations in the use of living organisms, such as relatively short shelf life of the products and inconsistent performance in the field. Different mechanisms of action have been identified in microbial biocontrol of fungal plant diseases including competition for space or nutrients, production of antifungal metabolites, and secretion of hydrolytic enzymes such as chitinases and glucanases. This review focuses on the bacterial chitinases that hydrolyze the chitinous fungal cell wall, which is the most important targeted structural component of fungal pathogens. The application of the hydrolytic enzyme preparations, devoid of live bacteria, could be more efficacious in fungal control strategies. This approach, however, is still in its infancy, due to prohibitive production costs. Here, we critically examine available sources of bacterial chitinases and the approaches to improve enzymatic properties using biotechnological tools. We project that the combination of microbial and recombinant DNA technologies will yield more effective environment-friendly products of bacterial chitinases to control fungal diseases of crops. 
3152709	19881101	Microbiol._Sci.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Yeast beta-glucanases: a complex system of secreted enzymes.	The complement of glucan-hydrolysing enzymes produced by yeast species is considered to be relevant to morphogenesis, since this polysaccharide is the major structural component of the yeast cell wall. beta-glucanase systems of different species consist of both 1,3-beta- and 1,6-beta-hydrolases, which exert their action by either an exo- or an endo-splitting mechanism. The diversity of beta-glucanase systems, even among related species, is striking. The enzymes are produced for export, and the active forms of some of them seem to be generated upon secretion. Genetic approaches and the cloning of the glucanase genes are being used to clarify the biological role of the different enzymes. These also offer a possibility for genetic analysis of the functions related to cell wall dynamics with potential applications in biotechnology. 
17927946	20071012	Anal._Biochem.	D023362 D016428 	A long-wavelength fluorescent substrate for continuous fluorometric determination of cellulase activity: resorufin-beta-D-cellobioside.	A simple and reliable continuous assay procedure for measurement of cellulase activity from several species using the new substrate resorufin-beta-D-cellobioside (Res-CB) has been developed. The product of enzyme reaction, resorufin, exhibits fluorescence emission at 585 nm with excitation at 571 nm and has a pK(a) of 5.8, which allows continuous measurement of fluorescence turnover at or near physiological pH values. The assay performed using purified cellulase from the microscopic fungus Trichoderma reesei has been shown to give the kinetic parameters K(m) of 112 microM and V(max) of 0.000673 micromol/mL/min. Methods for performing the assay using cellulases isolated from both live Arabidopsis thaliana plant and Aspergillus niger fungal species are presented. 
15943106	20050610	Ecotoxicology	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Identification of bacteria isolated from an oligotrophic lake with pesticide removal capacities.	We studied the growth and capacities for pesticides removal of bacterial strains isolated from the Laguna Grande, an oligotrophic lake at the South of Spain (Archidona, Málaga). Strains were isolated from water samples amended with 10 and 50 microg/ml of nine pesticides: organochlorinated insecticides (aldrin and lindane), organophosphorous insecticides (dimetoate, methyl-parathion and methidation), s-triazine herbicides (simazine and atrazine), fungicide (captan) and diflubenzuron (1-(-4-chlorophenyl)-3-(2,6-difluorobenzoyl urea), a chitinase inhibitor. The majority of the strains belonged to the genera Pseudomonas and Aeromonas and only 9% of the total of strains were Gram positive. From all the strains isolated, only 22 showed a wide growth range in all the pesticides tested and 4 of them were chosen for pesticide removal studies. The genetic identification of these strains showed their affiliation to Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes, Micrococcus luteus, Bacillus sp. and Exiguobacterium aurantiacum. These last two strains were those that showed the highest pesticide removal capacities and a high bacterial growth. 
18180153	20080109	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	A xylose-tolerant beta-xylosidase from Paecilomyces thermophila: characterization and its co-action with the endogenous xylanase.	An extracellular beta-xylosidase from the thermophilic fungus Paecilomyces thermophila J18 was purified 31.9-fold to homogeneity with a recovery yield of 2.27% from the cell-free culture supernatant. It appeared as a single protein band on SDS-PAGE with a molecular mass of approx 53.5 kDa. The molecular mass of beta-xylosidase was 51.8 kDa determined by Superdex 75 gel filtration. The enzyme was a glycoprotein with a carbohydrate content of 61.5%. It exhibited an optimal activity at 55 degrees C and pH 6.5, respectively. The enzyme was stable in the range of pH 6.0-9.0 and at 55 degrees C. The purified enzyme hydrolyzed xylobiose and higher xylooligosaccharides but was inactive against xylan substrates. It released xylose from xylooligosaccharides with a degree of polymerization ranging between 2 and 5. The rate of xylose released from xylooligosaccharides by the purified enzyme increased with increasing chain length. It had a K(m) of 4.3mM for p-nitrophenol-beta-d-xylopyranoside and was competitively inhibited by xylose with a K(i) value of 139 mM. Release of reducing sugars from xylans by a purified xylanase produced by the same organism increased markedly in the presence of beta-xylosidase. During 24-hour hydrolysis, the amounts of reducing sugar released in the presence of added beta-xylosidase were about 1.5-1.73 times that of the reaction employing the xylanase alone. This is the first report on the purification and characterization of a beta-xylosidase from Paecilomyces thermophila. 
18987860	20081107	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and characterization of the Thcut1 gene encoding a cutinase of Trichoderma harzianum T34.	The cloning and characterization of the Thcut1 gene, which encodes a cutinase protein of the biocontrol fungus Trichoderma harzianum T34, is reported. Cutinases, which are secreted enzymes that hydrolyse cutin, belong to a class of serine esterases able to hydrolyze fatty acid esters and emulsified triglycerides. The Thcut1 gene was isolated by screening of a genomic DNA library from EST 2104, generated from a T. harzianum T34 cDNA library constructed under mycoparasitic and nutrient stress conditions, as a probe. Thcut1 shows similarity with fungal cutinase genes and is present as a single copy in the genome of T. harzianum. RNA blot analyses revealed that Thcut1 mRNA is strongly induced in vitro by olive oil and the cutin monomer 16-hydroxy-hexadecanoic acid and that it is repressed by glucose. Significant transcript levels were also detected when strawberry plants or pectin were present in the media and in the absence of glucose. Expression of the Thcut1 gene in Pichia pastoris gave rise to transformants with high esterase activity and a high level of secretion of the THCUT1 protein. Recombinant cutinase secretion at flask level indicated that P. pastoris transformants could be applied to set up the production of this enzyme at industrial scale. 
18778277	20080910	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Interactions between engineered tomato plants expressing antifungal enzymes and nontarget fungi in the rhizosphere and phyllosphere.	The introduction of genetically modified (GM) plants in agroecosystems raises concern about possible effects on nontarget species. The impact of a tomato line transformed for constitutive expression of tobacco beta-1,3-glucanase and chitinase on indigenous nonpathogenic fungi was investigated. In greenhouse experiments, no significant differences were found in the colonization by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Diversity indices computed from over 20 500 colonies of culturable rhizosphere and phyllosphere saprotrophic microfungi, assigned to 165 species (plus > 80 sterile morphotypes), showed no significant differences between GM and wild-type plants. Differences were found by discriminant analysis in both the rhizosphere and the phyllosphere, but such effects were minor compared with those linked to different plant growth stages. 
8670160	19960615	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of an extracellular (1 --> 6)-beta-glucanase from the filamentous fungus Acremonium persicinum.	An endo-(1 --> 6)-beta-glucanase has been isolated from the culture filtrates of the filamentous fungus Acremonium persicinum and purified by (NH4)2SO4 precipitation followed by anion-exchange and gel-filtration chromatography. SDS/PAGE of the purified enzyme gave a single band with an apparent molecular mass of 42.7 kDa. The enzyme is a non-glycosylated, monomeric protein with a pI of 4.9 and pH optimum of 5.0. It hydrolysed (1 --> 6)-beta-glucans (pustulan and lutean), initially yielding a series of (1 --> 6)-beta-linked oligoglucosides, consistent with endo-hydrolytic action. Final hydrolysis products from these substrates were gentiobiose and gentiotriose, with all products released as beta-anomers, indicating that the enzyme acts with retention of configuration. The purified enzyme also hydrolysed Eisenia bicyclis laminarin, liberating glucose, gentiobiose, and a range of larger oligoglucosides, through the apparent bydrolysis of (1 --> 6)-beta- and some (1 --> 3)-beta-linkages in this substrate. K(m) values for pustulan, lutean and laminarin were 1.28, 1.38, and 1.67 mg/ml respectively. The enzyme was inhibited by N-acetylimidazole, N-bromosuccinimide, dicyclohexylcarbodi-imide, Woodward's Reagent K, 2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl bromide, KMnO4 and some metal ions, whereas D-glucono-1,5-lactone and EDTA had no effect. 
6435476	19840701	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Large-scale purification of fungal glucoamylases using anion-exchange resin chromatography.	Anion-exchange chromatography on polystyrene resin is shown to be more effective than DEAE-cellulose for purification of glucoamylase from crude enzyme extracts of Aspergillus awamori or from commercial preparations. The glucoamylase from A. awamori culture medium was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity with yields approaching 80%. 
21165671	20101218	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	The myosin ATPase inhibitor, 2,3-butanedione 2-monoxime, prevents protein secretion by the basidiomycete Coprinopsis cinerea.	The plant-saprophytic basidiomycete, Coprinopsis cinerea, produces and secretes various cellulases during cellulose degradation as the main extracellular proteins. Although enzymatic characterization of such cellulases has been frequently reported, the mechanism of their secretion remains unclear. This study focused on myosins, actin-based motor proteins, involved in protein secretion in C. cinerea. During cultivation under cellulase-inducing condition, no cellulase activity was observed when the mycelia were treated with 2,3-butanedione 2-monoxime (BDM), a general inhibitor of myosin ATPase. Furthermore, BDM treatment disrupted the localization of the Golgi apparatus, but not that of the endoplasmic reticulum. Three genes encoding myosin-like proteins (CcMyo1, CcMyo2 and CcMyo5) were identified from the C. cinerea genome database. Transcription of these genes was promoted when the fungus was grown under cellulase-inducing condition. 
21221939	20110112	J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification and functional analysis of a gene encoding β-glucosidase from the brown-rot basidiomycete Fomitopsis palustris.	The brown-rot basidiomycete Fomitopsis palustris is known to degrade crystalline cellulose (Avicel) and produce three major cellulases, exoglucanases, endoglucanases, and β-glucosidases. A novel β-glucosidase designated as Cel3A was identified from F. palustris grown at the expense of Avicel. The deduced amino acid sequence of Cel3A showed high homology with those of other fungal β-glucosidases that belong to glycosyl hydrolase (GH) family 3. The sequence analysis also indicated that Cel3A contains the N- and C-terminal domains of GH family 3 and Asp-209 was conserved as a catalytic nucleophile. The cloned gene was successfully expressed in the yeast Pichia pastoris and the recombinant protein exhibited β-glucosidase activity with cellobiose and some degree of thermostability. Considering the size and sequence of the protein, the β-glucosidase identified in this study is different from the protein purified directly from F. palustris in the previous study. Our results suggest that the fungus possesses at least two β-glucosidase genes. 
8541310	19951214	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Effects of temperature shifts on the metabolism of trehalose in Neurospora crassa wild type and a trehalase-deficient (tre) mutant. Evidence against the participation of periplasmic trehalase in the catabolism of intracellular trehalose.	The effects of temperature shifts on the metabolism of trehalose in Neurospora crassa were studied in conidiospore germlings of a wild type strain, and of a mutant (tre), deficient in the activity of periplasmic trehalase. When the temperature of the medium was raised from 30 degrees C to 45 degrees C both strains accumulated trehalose, either in media supplemented with glucose or with glycerol as carbon sources. The profiles of glycolysis metabolites suggested that at 45 degrees C glycolysis was inhibited at the level of the phosphofructokinase-1 reaction, while that of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase was active, thus explaining how the flux of carbon from glucose or glycerol was channeled to trehalose synthesis at that temperature. This assumption was also supported by the changes in levels of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, which dropped during the incubation at 45 degrees C. The opposite phenomena were observed when the cultures were reincubated at 30 degrees C and glycolysis was strongly activated. Surprisingly, the intracellular pool of trehalose of the mutant decreased after reincubation at 30 degrees C at the same rate observed for the wild type (about 25.0 nmol/min per mg protein) despite its low trehalase activity (about 5.0 nmol/min per mg protein). Labeling experiments using [U-14C]-glucose demonstrated that both the wild type and the mutant metabolized internally the trehalose pool, without detectable leakage of glucose or trehalose into the external medium. Cells submitted to heat shock in glycerol-supplemented medium and resuspended at 30 degrees in the absence of an exogenous carbon source and in the presence of the glycolysis inhibitor 2-deoxyglucose accumulated high levels of free intracellular glucose, indicating that trehalose was hydrolysed internally. This suggested the existence of a cytosolic regulatory trehalase in Neurospora crassa, but all efforts to detect such activity in cell extracts have been unsuccessful so far. Altogether, these results argued against the participation of the periplasmic trehalase of N. crassa in the catabolism of intracellular trehalose. They are also conflictant with the enzyme/substrate decompartmentation hypothesis, earlier suggested as a way of explaining the mobilization of endogenous trehalose reserves accumulated in fungal spores (reviewed in Thevelein 1984, Microbiol. Rev. 48, 42-59). 
24414497	20140114	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Sequential production of pectinases byPenicillium frequentans.	The pectinases produced byPenicillium frequentans were subjected to pectin- or sodium polypectate-PAGE. The fungus secreted one endo- and one exo-polygalacturonase during the first 10 h of incubation, either in media supplemented with pectin or in the absence of carbohydrate source. After 17 h of cultivation, another two exo-and three endo-polygalacturonases were detected in cultures supplemented with pectin. The results indicate that two constitutive polygalacturonases are secreted initially, followed by the synthesis of other inducible pectinases, in a sequential production of the pectinolytic complex. Monogalacturonic acid and sodium polypectate were better inducers for exo- than for endo-polygalacturonases, indicating that these enzymes are independently controlled.  
8954885	19961201	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 	Immunoaffinity Chromatographic Purification of Cellobiohydrolase II Mutants from Recombinant Trichoderma reesei Strains Devoid of Major Endoglucanase Genes	Efficient purification of Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase II (CBHII) requires the use of affinity chromatography based on a substrate analogue. Due to altered substrate binding, the purification of many active-site mutants of CBHII from the complex fungal culture media represents a considerable challenge. Here we describe a combination of two approaches to facilitate the purification: the first is based on the construction of novel engineered T. reesei strains devoid of the major contaminating endoglucanases, and the second uses immunoaffinity chromatography as the final purification step. Two different procedures for the preparation of the antibody matrix were tested. Crosslinking of the monoclonal antibody to Protein G matrix instead of the conventional immobilization via cyanogen bromide increased the binding efficiency. Three different active-site mutants of CBHII bound to the immunoaffinity column in neutral pH and were eluted in pH 2.7. The purity of the CBHII mutant preparations was tested using small chromophoric substrates and hydroxyethyl cellulose, which are hydrolyzed by many other cellulases but not by CBHII. The immunoaffinity column purified the CBHII mutants over 800-fold in a single step and resulted in homogeneous protein preparations free of proteolytically cleaved forms of CBHII. The use of the double replacement T. reesei production strains, especially the one lacking the genes coding for both the endogeneous CBHII and the endoglucanase II (EGII), helped to reduce the total endoglucanase activity in the preparations. 
11807254	20020125	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of a novel pectate lyase from Azospirillum irakense.	The PelA gene from the N(2)-fixing plant-associated bacterium Azospirillum irakense encodes a pectate lyase. Analysis of the corresponding amino-acid sequence revealed no homology to other bacterial, plant and fungal pectinases of known published structure, resulting in the classification of the enzyme in a new pectate lyase family. The A. irakense PelA has been crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method at 277 K. The crystals are hexagonal, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 85.55, c = 230.13 A, gamma = 120 degrees, and belong to space group P6(5)22 or P6(1)22, having one molecule per asymmetric unit. Diffraction data to a resolution of 1.97 A were collected at synchrotron facilities, as well as a three-wavelength MAD data set from an Hg-derivative crystal to a resolution of 2.6 A. 
15304314	20040812	FEBS_Lett.	D003160 D016428 	Plant stress proteins of the thaumatin-like family discovered in animals.	Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) are polypeptides of about 200 residues synthesized by plants in response to fungal infection. In addition to the exceptionally strong sweet taste exhibited by some members, they are also reported to be endowed with endo-beta-1,3-glucanase activity and alpha-amylase inhibiting properties. However, the detailed mechanism of their antifungal action is not completely understood. So far, TLPs have only been described in plants, with several members of the family expressed in the same species. Here, for the first time in animals, we report the identification of two genes encoding members of the thaumatin-like proteins family in the desert locust Schistocerca gregaria and show their expression in different parts of the body. Southern blot and Western blot experiments revealed the presence of orthologous genes and their expression products in the related species Locusta migratoria. A search through the available genomes yielded similar sequences in the nematode Caenorhabditis but not in Drosophila and other insects. A three-dimensional model of S. gregaria TLP suggests a glucanase function. As in plants, TLPs could play a defense role in insects against pathogens. 
20518356	20100604	Sheng_Wu_Gong_Cheng_Xue_Bao	D016428 D013485 	[Purification and characterization of a chitinase from Bombyx mori].	The importance of chitinases in the physiological and developmental processes of fungi and insects makes themselves and their inhibitors important targets for biological pesticides. A chitinase was isolated from Bombyx mori and purified to electrophoretic homogeneity by ammonium sulfate precipitation and Sephadex G-150 column chromatography. The molecular mass was estimated to be about 88 kDa by SDS-PAGE, while the K(m) was calculated to be 22.3 micromol/L. Moveover, the optimal reaction temperature was 45 degrees C, and the optimum pH was 6.0. The effect of metal ions and organic reagents on chitinase activity was investigated. The activity was enhanced by high concentration of Mn2+, while was strongly inhibited by Cu2+ and SDS. These results provide a basis for screening the chitinase-based biological pesticide. 
9634791	19950501	Biotechnology_(N.Y.)	D016428 	A system for production of commercial quantities of human lactoferrin: a broad spectrum natural antibiotic.	We previously reported the production of limited quantities of biologically active recombinant human lactoferrin in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae. In the present study, we report a modification of this production system combined with a classical strain improvement program that has enabled production of levels of recombinant human lactoferrin in excess of 2 g/l. The protein was expressed in Aspergillus awamori as a glucoamylase fusion polypeptide which was secreted into the growth medium and processed to mature human lactoferrin by an endogenous KEX-2 peptidase. The recombinant protein retains full biological activity in terms of its ability to bind iron and human enterocyte receptors. Furthermore, the recombinant protein functions as a potent broad spectrum antimicrobial protein. 
10052144	19990303	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Cloning and sequencing of beta-mannosidase gene from Aspergillus aculeatus no. F-50.	The manB gene, coding for a unique beta-mannosidase (MANB) of Aspergillus aculeatus, was cloned from genomic and cDNA libraries, and sequenced. The gene consists of 2,811 bp encoding a polypeptide of 937 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 104,214 Da. The A. aculeatus MANB shared amino acid sequence identity with MANB of human (24%), goat (24%), bovine (24%), and Caenorhabditis elegans (22%). When the A. aculeatus MANB was compared with other related enzymes, a Glu residue corresponding to the active site identified by the Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase and the human beta-guclonidase was conserved. This is the first fungal gene that encodes MANB. 
9193	19760801	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Competition between Phytophthora cinnamomi and Trichoderma spp. in autoclaved soil.	Results from analyses of beta-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21) and phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.1;EC 3.1.3.2) activities indicated that presence of a Trichoderma isolate reduced development of Phytophthora cinnamomi. It was also observed that P. cinnamomi was more competitive in coinoculated cultures than in cultures where Trichoderma was added on day 3. Analysis of trehalase (EC 3.2.1.28) activity indicated that Trichoderma either utilized portions of the P. cinnamomi mycelium as substrate or the action of P. cinnamomi released additional nutrients not normally available to Trichoderma. Ther stronger Trichoderma isolate was T. harzianum. 
9325098	19971105	J._Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	The crystal structure of the catalytic core domain of endoglucanase I from Trichoderma reesei at 3.6 A resolution, and a comparison with related enzymes.	Cellulose is the most abundant polymer in the biosphere. Although generally resistant to degradation, it may be hydrolysed by cellulolytic organisms that have evolved a variety of structurally distinct enzymes, cellobiohydrolases and endoglucanases, for this purpose. Endoglucanase I (EG I) is the major endoglucanase produced by the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma reesei, accounting for 5 to 10% of the total amount of cellulases produced by this organism. Together with EG I from Humicola insolens and T. reesei cellobiohydrolase I (CBH I), the enzyme is classified into family 7 of the glycosyl hydrolases, and it catalyses hydrolysis with a net retention of the anomeric configuration. The structure of the catalytic core domain (residues 1 to 371) of EG I from T. reesei has been determined at 3.6 A resolution by the molecular replacement method using the structures of T. reesei CBH I and H. insolens EG I as search models. By employing the 2-fold non-crystallographic symmetry (NCS), the structure was refined successfully, despite the limited resolution. The final model has an R-factor of 0.201 (Rfree 0.258). The structure of EG I reveals an extended, open substrate-binding cleft, rather than a tunnel as found in the homologous cellobiohydrolase CBH I. This confirms the earlier proposal that the tunnel-forming loops in CBH I have been deleted in EG I, which has resulted in an open active site in EG I, enabling it to function as an endoglucanase. Comparison of the structure of EG I with several related enzymes reveals structural similarities, and differences that relate to their biological function in degrading particular substrates. A possible structural explanation of the drastically different pH profiles of T. reesei and H. insolens EG I is proposed. 
22515264	20120421	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	A highly efficient β-glucosidase from the buffalo rumen fungus Neocallimastix patriciarum W5.	Cellulose, which is the most abundant renewable biomass on earth, is a potential bio-resource of alternative energy. The hydrolysis of plant polysaccharides is catalyzed by microbial cellulases, including endo-β-1,4-glucanases, cellobiohydrolases, cellodextrinases, and β-glucosidases. Converting cellobiose by β-glucosidases is the key factor for reducing cellobiose inhibition and enhancing the efficiency of cellulolytic enzymes for cellulosic ethanol production. In this study, a cDNA encoding β-glucosidase was isolated from the buffalo rumen fungus Neocallimastix patriciarum W5 and is named NpaBGS. It has a length of 2,331 bp with an open reading frame coding for a protein of 776 amino acid residues, corresponding to a theoretical molecular mass of 85.1 kDa and isoelectric point of 4.4. Two GH3 catalytic domains were found at the N and C terminals of NpaBGS by sequence analysis. The cDNA was expressed in Pichia pastoris and after protein purification, the enzyme displayed a specific activity of 34.5 U/mg against cellobiose as the substrate. Enzymatic assays showed that NpaBGS was active on short cello-oligosaccharides from various substrates. A weak activity in carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) digestion indicated that the enzyme might also have the function of an endoglucanase. The optimal activity was detected at 40°C and pH 5 ~ 6, showing that the enzyme prefers a weak acid condition. Moreover, its activity could be enhanced at 50°C by adding Mg2+ or Mn2+ ions. Interestingly, in simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) experiments using Saccharomyces cerevisiae BY4741 or Kluyveromyces marxianus KY3 as the fermentation yeast, NpaBGS showed advantages in cell growth, glucose production, and ethanol production over the commercial enzyme Novo 188. Moreover, we showed that the KY3 strain engineered with the NpaNGS gene can utilize 2 % dry napiergrass as the sole carbon source to produce 3.32 mg/ml ethanol when Celluclast 1.5 L was added to the SSF system. Our characterizations of the novel β-glucosidase NpaBGS revealed that it has a preference of weak acidity for optimal yeast fermentation and an optimal temperature of ~40°C. Since NpaBGS performs better than Novo 188 under the living conditions of fermentation yeasts, it has the potential to be a suitable enzyme for SSF. 
17544537	20070605	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Penicillium brasilianum as an enzyme factory; the essential role of feruloyl esterases for the hydrolysis of the plant cell wall.	The production of arabinoxylan-degrading enzymes by the fungus Penicillium brasilianum, grown on different carbon and nitrogen sources as well as different environmental conditions was investigated. Highest feruloyl esterase (225 mU/ml) and alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase (211 mU/ml) activities were obtained when P. brasilianum was grown on sugar beet pulp, whereas maximum xylanase (17 U/ml) activity was found during growth on oat spelt xylan. Yeast extract was the preferable nitrogen source for the production of all the three enzymes. Further optimization of the production of the crude enzyme mixture was examined by experimental design using a D-optimal quadratic model. Investigation of the microbial regulation of enzyme production showed that the presence of free ferulic acid further stimulated the production and pointing to that the fungal regulatory mechanism involved a coordinated production and secretion of feruloyl esterase, xylanase and alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase. Since agroindustrial by-products are a potential source of phenolic acids, crude enzyme mixtures of P. brasilianum were tested for their hydrolysis abilities against eight complex or model substrates. While total release of phenolic acids and pentoses was not observed, the synergistic enhancement of hydrolysis in the presence of feruloyl esterase was clearly demonstrated. 
22080343	20111115	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	A homologous production system for Trichoderma reesei secreted proteins in a cellulase-free background.	Recent demands for the production of biofuels from lignocellulose led to an increased interest in engineered cellulases from Trichoderma reesei or other fungal sources. While the methods to generate such mutant cellulases on DNA level are straightforward, there is often a bottleneck in their production since a correct posttranslational processing of these enzymes is needed to obtain highly active enzymes. Their production and subsequent enzymatic analysis in the homologous host T. reesei is, however, often disturbed by the concomitant production of other endogenous cellulases. As a useful alternative, we tested the production of cellulases in T. reesei in a genetic background where cellulase formation has been impaired by deletion of the major cellulase transcriptional activator gene xyr1. Three cellulase genes (cel7a, cel7b, and cel12a) were expressed under the promoter regions of the two highly expressed genes tef1 (encoding translation elongation factor 1-alpha) or cdna1 (encoding the hypothetical protein Trire2:110879). When cultivated on D: -glucose as carbon source, the Δxyr1 strain secreted all three cellulases into the medium. Related to the introduced gene copy number, the cdna1 promoter appeared to be superior to the tef1 promoter. No signs of proteolysis were detected, and the individual cellulases could be assayed over a background essentially free of other cellulases. Hence this system can be used as a vehicle for rapid and high-throughput testing of cellulase muteins in a homologous background. 
9818257	19981118	Curr._Opin._Struct._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Cellulose, cellulases and cellulosomes.	The structural complexity and rigidity of cellulosic substrates have given rise to a phenomenal diversity of degradative enzymes--the cellulases. Cellulolytic microorganisms produce a wide variety of different catalytic and noncatalytic enzyme modules, which form the cellulases and act synergistically on their substrate. In some microbes, several types of cellulases are organized into an elaborate multifunctional supramolecular complex, known as the cellulosome. A combination of molecular genetic, biochemical, chemical, crystallographic and microscopic techniques are paving the way for new insights into both the structure of cellulose and the mechanisms of its hydrolysis. 
9501415	19980321	Insect_Biochem._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D016454 	Insect chitinases: molecular biology and potential use as biopesticides.	Chitin, an insoluble structural polysaccharide that occurs in the exoskeletal and gut linings of insects, is a metabolic target of selective pest control agents. One potential biopesticide is the insect molting enzyme, chitinase, which degrades chitin to low molecular weight, soluble and insoluble oligosaccharides. For several years, our laboratories have been characterizing this enzyme and its gene. Most recently, we have been developing chitinase for use as a biopesticide to control insect and also fungal pests. Chitinases have been isolated from the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, and several other insect species, and some of their chemical, physical, and kinetic properties have been determined. Also, cDNA and genomic clones for the chitinase from the hornworm have been isolated and characterized. Transgenic plants that express hornworm chitinase constitutively have been generated and found to exhibit host plant resistance. A transformed entomopathogenic virus that produces the enzyme displayed enhanced insecticidal activity. Chitinase also potentiated the efficacy of the toxin from the microbial insecticide, Bacillus thuringiensis. Insect chitinase and its gene are now available for biopesticidal applications in integrated pest management programs. Current knowledge regarding the molecular biology and biopesticidal action of insect and several other types of chitinases is described in this mini-review. 
18610659	20080710	Pol._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Polymorphism in the ITS region of ribosomal DNA of Cochliobolus sativus isolates differing in xylanase production.	The restriction of PCR-amplified internal transcribed spacers (ITS) ofribosomal DNA was used to confirm the genetic variation among 22 isolates of Cochliobolus sativus differing in their xylanase production. Results show a high level of diversity of ITS-RFLP markers among the isolates. The molecular parameter used showed that C. sativus isolates reside in three phylogenetic groups. There was observed the resolution between clustering of isolates and their xylanase production level. 
16309350	20051129	Rev_Iberoam_Micol	D003160 D004740 D023362 D016428 	[Physiological comportment and in vivo sensitivity of Sporothrix schenckii isolates maintained for 18 years by two preservation methods].	We compared two methods for the preservation of fungi, Castellani's method and repeated passage in Sabouraud medium-agar, on five isolates of Sporothrix schenckii that were preserved for 18 years at room temperature by both procedures. They were evaluated for viability of the strains, growth rate, morphological and physiological characteristics, and in vitro sensitivity to iodide, itraconazole, terbinafine and posaconazole. 100% viability was observed in all of the isolates, with slower growth rate on strains preserved in water compared to strains periodically re-cultured. The typical morphological feature of these fungi was preserved by both methodologies. With regard to enzymatic activity, both groups gave urease reactions and were beta glucosidase-positive. Nevertheless, complete inhibition of the capacity to hydrolyse starch was observed only on the isolates preserved in water. This group also was more sensitive to potassium iodide at a concentration of 10 microM in the in vitro sensitivity tests. 
24226684	20131115	Planta	D016428 	The stromacentre inAvena plastids: an aggregation ofβ-glucosidase responsible for the activation of oat-leaf saponins.	The stromacentre, a particular structure in the plastids of mostAvena species, was isolated from etioplasts ofAvena sativa and then characterized to determine its biological function. When comparing differentAvena species with or without stromacentre, it was shown that the stromacentre, a 63-kDa protein, and saponins (characteristic compounds ofAvena sativa) either occur together or not at all. This linkage was confirmed by demonstrating a transformation of saponins by the isolated stromacentre protein: avenacosides were hydrolyzed to 26-desgluco-avenacosides. Therefore, the stromacentre protein had to be regarded as aβ-glucosidase. Enzyme assays usingp-nitrophenyl-β-D-glucopyranoside as substrate showed that thisβ-glucosidase has a pH optimum at pH 6.0. The calculatedK m value for this substrate was 2.2·10(-3) M. Antibodies against the stromacentre protein inhibitedβ-glucosidase activity. The determination of the molecular weight of theβ-glucosidase by sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis showed that it consists of subunits of 63 kDa. After gel electrophoresis under non-denaturing conditions, enzymatically active molecules were shown to consist of at least two of these subunits. Molecules aggregated up to about 10(6) Da also had enzyme activity. Enzyme assays using avenacosides as substrate showed a pH optimum at pH 6.0. The calculatedK m value for this substrate was 1.2·10(-5) M. The high affinity to the avenacosides and the high specificity for the C-26 bound glucose indicate that avenacosides are the natural substrates for thisβ-glucosidase. Assuming that the avenacosides in oat leaves play a role as preformed chemical inhibitory substances against phytopathogenic microorganisms, a model is presented showing the stromacentre with a central role in activating the fungitoxicity of avenacosides.  
22638966	20120529	Mol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Comparison of the heterologous expression of Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase II and cellobiohydrolase II in the yeasts Pichia pastoris and Yarrowia lipolytica.	The sequences encoding the genes for endoglucanase II and cellobiohydrolase II from the fungus Trichoderma reesei QM9414 were successfully cloned and expressed in Yarrowia lipolytica under the control of the POX2 or TEF promoters, and using either the native or preproLip2 secretion signals. The expression level of both recombinant enzymes was compared with that obtained using Pichia pastoris, under the control of the AOX1 promoter to evaluate the utility of Y. lipolytica as a host strain for recombinant EGII and CBHII production. Extracellular endoglucanase activity was similar between TEF-preoproLip2-eglII expressed in Y. lipolytica and P. pastoris induced by 0.5 % (v/v) methanol, but when recombinant protein expression in P. pastoris was induced with 3 % (v/v) methanol, the activity was increased by about sevenfold. In contrast, the expression level of cellobiohydrolase from the TEF-preproLip2-cbhII cassette was higher in Y. lipolytica than in P. pastoris. Transformed Y. lipolytica produced up to 15 mg/l endoglucanase and 50 mg/l cellobiohydrolase, with the specific activity of both proteins being greater than their homologs produced by P. pastoris. Partial characterization of recombinant endoglucanase II and cellobiohydrolase II expressed in both yeasts revealed their optimum pH and temperature, and their pH and temperature stabilities were identical and hyperglycosylation had little effect on their enzymatic activity and properties. 
10658668	20000205	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Monitoring the kinetics of glycoprotein synthesis and secretion in the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei: cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI) as a model protein.	The authors have developed methodology to study the kinetics of protein synthesis and secretion in filamentous fungi. Production of cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI) by Trichoderma reesei was studied by metabolic labelling of the proteins in vivo with [35S]methionine or [14C]mannose, and subsequent analysis of the labelled proteins using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Analysis of the different pl forms of the nascent proteins allowed monitoring of the maturation of CBHI during the transport along the biosynthetic pathway. The maturation of the pi pattern of CBHI as well as secretion into culture medium was prevented by treatment with the reducing agent DTT. The pl forms of CBHI detectable in the presence of DTT corresponded to the early endoplasmic reticulum forms of the protein. Removal of N-glycans by enzymic treatment (endoglycosidase H or peptide-N-glycosidase F), or chemical removal of both N- and O-glycans, changed the pl pattern of CBHI, showing that glycan structures are involved in formation of the different pl forms of the protein. By quantifying the labelled proteins during a time course, parameters describing protein synthesis and secretion were deduced. The mean synthesis time for CBHI under the conditions used was 4 min and the minimum secretion time was 11 min. The methodology developed in this study provides tools to reveal the rate-limiting factors in protein production and to obtain information on the intracellular events involved in the secretion process. 
19187498	20090204	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	An image analysis technique to estimate the cell density and biomass concentration of Trichoderma reesei.	The objective is to develop an automated image analysis protocol to quantify the cell volume fraction of filamentous fungi (Trichoderma reesei) and estimate the biomass concentration. Both dry weight and image analyses were performed on samples collected periodically from 7-l stirred tank fermentations. Using the projected area of lactophenol blue-stained hyphae, the fraction occupied by the cells in a given volume was estimated. Combined with the biomass dry weight obtained by filtration, the method was used to estimate the density of filamentous fungi. Knowing the density of fungi, the algorithm was employed to quantitatively assess the biomass evolution during the course of fermentation even in the presence of solid particles. A density of 0.334 g dry weight cm(-3) was found for T. reesei RUT C-30. The image analysis protocol allowed successful estimation of biomass concentration in the presence or absence of solid particles. Methods to quantify biomass during the industrial production of cellulase with T. reesei are often limited due to the presence of solid substrates. The image analysis protocol presented here offers a quick and easy way to estimate biomass concentration of filamentous micro-organisms in insoluble medium. 
6373661	19831101	Ital._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Multiple forms of intracellular alpha-glucosidase from Thermoascus aurantiacus Miehe: purification and properties.	The intracellular alpha-glucosidase extracted from the mycelium of Thermoascus aurantiacus was resolved by chromatographic procedures on DEAE-cellulose and hydroxylapatite into 4 major forms which account for 96% of the recovered activity. These forms, purified to electrophoretic homogeneity, display the same affinity toward p-nitrophenyl-alpha-glucoside (Km = 0.24 mM at pH 4 and 70 degrees C), the same molecular weight on Sephadex G-200 (140,000-145,000) and isoelectric point (4.2) and are protected by Cl- and H+ ions from heat denaturation at 70 degrees C. They differ in the carbohydrate content which varies between 14 and 31%, w/w. 
7506286	19930901	J._Endocrinol.	D016428 D013485 	Islet glucan-1,4-alpha-glucosidase: differential influence on insulin secretion induced by glucose and isobutylmethylxanthine in mice.	In previous in-vivo studies we have presented indirect evidence for the involvement of islet acid glucan-1,4-alpha-glucosidase (acid amyloglucosidase), a lysosomal glycogen-hydrolysing enzyme, in certain insulin secretory processes. In the present combined in-vitro and in-vivo investigation, we studied whether differential changes in islet acid amyloglucosidase activity were related to the insulin secretory response induced by two mechanistically different secretagogues, glucose and isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX). It was observed that addition of the selective alpha-glucosidehydrolase inhibitor emiglitate (1 mmol/l) to isolated pancreatic islets resulted in a marked reduction of glucose-induced insulin release. This was accompanied by a pronounced suppression of islet activities of acid amyloglucosidase and acid alpha-glucosidase, whereas other lysosomal enzyme activities, such as acid phosphatase and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, were unaffected. Furthermore, islets first incubated with emiglitate in the presence of high (16.7 mmol/l) glucose released less insulin than untreated controls in response to glucose in a second incubation period in the absence of emiglitate. In contrast, IBMX-induced insulin release was not influenced by emiglitate although accompanied by a marked reduction of islet activities of all three alpha-glucosidehydrolases. Basal insulin secretion (1 mmol glucose/l) was unaffected in the presence of emiglitate. In-vivo pretreatment of mice with highly purified fungal amyloglucosidase ('enzyme replacement'), a procedure known to increase islet amyloglucosidase activity, resulted in a greatly enhanced insulin secretory response to an i.v. glucose load. The increase in insulin release was accompanied by a markedly improved glucose tolerance curve in these animals. In contrast, enzyme pretreatment did not influence the insulin response or the blood glucose levels after an i.v. injection of IBMX. The data lend further support to our hypothesis that islet acid amyloglucosidase is involved in the multifactorial insulin secretory processes induced by glucose but not in those involving direct activation of the cyclic AMP system. The results also indicate separate, or at least partially separate, pathways for insulin release induced by glucose and IBMX. 
23983546	20130829	Mycobiology	D016428 	Fungal strain improvement for cellulase production using repeated and sequential mutagenesis.	A fungal strain producing a high level of cellulase was selected from 320 fungal isolates and identified as Aspergillus sp. This strain was further improved for cellulase production by sequential treatments by two repeated rounds of γ-irradiation of Co(60), ultraviolet treatment and four repeated rounds of treatment with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine. The best mutant strain, Aspergillus sp. XTG-4, was selected after screening and the activities of carboxymethyl cellulase, filter paper cellulase and β-glucosidase of the cellulase were improved by 2.03-, 3.20-, and 1.80-fold, respectively, when compared to the wild type strain. After being subcultured 19 times, the enzyme production of the mutant Aspergillus sp. XTG-4s was stable.  
1190637	19750401	Ann._Microbiol._(Paris)	D004740 D016428 	[The enzymatic hydrolysis of cell wall applied to yeasts classification (author's transl)].	The rigid structure of yeast cell wall may be a taxonomic criterion. Using the Helix pomatia juice (with mercaptoethylamine hydrochloride) as a polyenzymatic system, we have always obtained protoplasts from ascomycetous yeasts and never from basidiomycetous yeasts tested. Then, we have applied this enzymatic analysis to the Fungi imperfecti yeasts and, according to this test, separated genus looking like basidiomycetous behaviour: Trichosporon, Pityrosporum, Rhodotorula, Cryptococcus and non fermentative Candida (group II). Oppositely, we have put together the Fungi imperfecti yeasts looking like ascomycetous behaviour: Kloeckera, Trigonopsis, Brettanomyces and fermentative Candida (group I). With the second lytic system made of mercaptoethylamine-HCl and beta-(1-3)-D-glucanase, we have selected ascomycetous yeasts giving protoplasts: Saccharomycoidea with genus Saccharomyces, Kluyveromyces, Pichia, Hansenula, Citeromyces, Debaryomyces; we have joined Saccharomycodes and Hanseniaspora to this second group. The other ascomycetous yeasts studied did not give protoplasts with the definite lytic system made of purified beta-(1-3)-D-glucanase and thiol. These results seem to demonstrate that the structure of cell wall can act as an important taxonomic criterion. 
19967375	20091208	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Diversity of yeasts from puddles in the vicinity of midre lovénbreen glacier, arctic and bioprospecting for enzymes and fatty acids.	A total of 132 yeast strains were characterised from 4 sediment samples collected from small puddles in the vicinity of Midre Lovénbreen glacier, Arctic. Based on the D1/D2 domain sequence similarity, the isolates could be categorised into 6 groups. The nearest phylogenetic neighbour of groups I to VI were identified as Cryptococcus gastricus, Cryptococcus terricolus, Rhodotorula muscorum, Mrakia psychrophila, Mrakia gelida and Rhodotorula glacialis, respectively. Strains representative of the six groups were psychrophilic and salt tolerant but varied in their ability to produce cold-active extracellular enzymes such as lipase, protease, pectinase, cellulase and amylase. C(18:1 (w9C)) and C(18:2 (w9,12C)) were the only two fatty acids common to all the yeasts and branched and (or) unsaturated fatty acids increased in yeasts growing at 8 degrees C compared to 22 degrees C, probably as an adaptation to low temperature. The present study establishes that psychrophilic yeasts are predominant in Arctic and could be used as work horses to produce cold-active enzymes and poly unsaturated fatty acids which have been implicated in low temperature adaptation and also for their use in biotechnology. 
20668405	20100730	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation, characterization and application of a chitosan-degrading fungus from soil.	A chitosan-degrading fungus, BSF114, was isolated from soil. The culture preparation showed strong chitosanolytic enzyme activity at optimum pH 4.0 and optimum temperature of 60 degrees C after 36-40 h fermentation. The rapid decreased viscosity of chitosan solutions at early stage of reaction suggested an endo-type cleavage of the polymeric chitosan chains. To identify the isolated fungus, molecular biological and morphological methods were used. The fungal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region 1 was amplified, sequenced, and then compared with related sequences in the GenBank database using BLAST. The phylogenetic relationships were then analyzed, and the results showed that the fungus belongs to Aspergillus fumigatus. Morphological observations were also used to confirm the above conclusion. The chitooligosaccharides (COS) obtained through hydrolyzing the colloidal chitosan showed A. fumigatus BSF114 is suitable for degrading chitosan and producing chitooligosaccharides on a large scale. High concentrations of the COS (1000 and 500 microg/mL) significantly proliferated mice marrow cells. 
9627984	19980617	J._Eukaryot._Microbiol.	D016428 D013487 	Quantitation of absolute Pneumocystis carinii nuclear DNA content. Trophic and cystic forms isolated from infected rat lungs are haploid organisms.	The Pneumocystis carinii carinii DNA content in nuclei of trophic forms and cysts (spore cases) containing 2, 4, or 8 intracystic bodies, were compared using quantitative fluorescence image analysis. The nuclear DNA content was found to be lower than the theoretical limits of Feulgen cytophotometry. Several fluorescent DNA dyes provide brighter staining, but these techniques suffer from nonspecific binding to other cellular components, such as RNA. It was demonstrated that the thick glycocalyx surfaces of trophic forms and the cyst walls of P. carinii organisms, as well as the cell wall of S. cerevisiae, bound all fluorescent dyes tested to varying degrees. Hence in this study, measurements were performed on cells in which the outer surfaces of organisms were first removed with lyticase. Two stains that appeared most specific for DNA, DB181 and 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), were used for quantitations; lower deviations of fluorescence intensities were observed with DB181. Haploid wild type Saccharomyces cerevisiae and cdc-28 temperature-sensitive mutant cells, accumulated at the restrictive temperature (37 degrees C), were used as quantitative internal standards for estimating the absolute nuclear DNA content of P. carinii. Haploid wild type and mutant nuclei stained with DAPI had the same relative fluorescence intensities. The P. carinii nuclear DNA content of trophic forms and individual intracystic bodies (spores), regardless of life cycle stage, were not different. The mean values obtained were 6.9 and 6.7 fg DNA/nucleus with DB181 and DAPI, respectively (approximately 9.26 and 8.99 Mbp nucleotides, respectively). Since these would include 2C (G-2 phase) and S-phase nuclei, a 1C population of nuclei was selected by histogram distributions of DB181-stained nuclei. Almost all nuclei analyzed in all life cycle stages fell within this population. The 1C mean of 6.55 fg DNA/nucleus (median, 6.62 fg DNA/nucleus) was estimated as representing 8.79 Mbp nucleotides, assuming only A-T binding of the dye and taking into account the G + C content of S. cerevisiae and P. carinii. A 4C (G-2-phase diploid nuclei) population was not detected in histograms of DB181- or DAPI-stained nuclei. The P. carinii nuclear DNA content values obtained in this study were similar to those independently obtained by calculating the total DNA in the organism's chromosomes resolved by electrophoretic techniques. Together, the data on total chromosome numbers and the estimated DNA content of those chromosomes, with our quantitation of nuclear DNA content of different life-cycle stages demonstrate that P. carini carinii isolated from infected rat lungs are haploid organisms. 
16788725	20060622	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Reidentification of cellulolytic enzyme-producing Trichoderma strains W-10 and G-39.	Strain W-10, originally identified as Trichoderma koningii, and its supposed mutant G-39, published for production and gene expression of cellulase and xylanase, demonstrated morphological characteristics distinct from those of T. koningii, respectively. To clarify the identification derived from morphological characteristics, several methods were used, including electrophoretic karyotyping, internal transcribed spacer (ITS) analysis of rDNA, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) fingerprinting using the universal primer L45. All the molecular characteristics showed that strains G-39 and W-10 were identical to T. reesei and T. longibrachiatum, respectively. The results strongly supported that T. koningii G-39 and W-10 should be reassigned as T. reesei and T. longibrachiatum, respectively. Strain G-39 should be considered a mutant from T. reesei QM9414 whose spores were contaminated with those of strain W-10 during a laboratory operation. According to this, we declare that T. koningii G-39 and W-10 must be renamed as T. reesei and T. longibrachiatum, respectively. 
19044008	20081203	Mikrobiol._Z.	D003160 D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Cellulase and xylanase activity of phytopathogenic and endophytic fungal strains of Alternaria alternata (Fr.) Keissler].	A comparative analysis of cellulase and xylanase activity of 25 fungal strains of phytopathogenic and endophytic Alternaria alternata had been realized for the first time using the qualitative reactions. The rate of their linear growth on the media with carboxymethylcellulose or xylane had been studied. The cellulase and xylanase activities clearly depended on the distinct strain. The absence of distinct dependence of cellulase and xylanase activities on the species and organs of host plants was demonstrated. The majority of investigated strains of A. alternata did not possess a cellulase activity or the latter was low, but as a whole the phytopathogenic strains were more active than endophytic ones. Xylanase activity was considerable for the fungal strains of all trophyc groups. It was shown that the level of xylanase activity cannot become a biochemical marker of the A. alternata isolate pathogenicity. 
19934038	20091126	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013486 	A nonprotein thermal hysteresis-producing xylomannan antifreeze in the freeze-tolerant Alaskan beetle Upis ceramboides.	Thermal hysteresis (TH), a difference between the melting and freezing points of a solution that is indicative of the presence of large-molecular-mass antifreezes (e.g., antifreeze proteins), has been described in animals, plants, bacteria, and fungi. Although all previously described TH-producing biomolecules are proteins, most thermal hysteresis factors (THFs) have not yet been structurally characterized, and none have been characterized from a freeze-tolerant animal. We isolated a highly active THF from the freeze-tolerant beetle, Upis ceramboides, by means of ice affinity. Amino acid chromatographic analysis, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, UV-Vis spectrophotometry, and NMR spectroscopy indicated that the THF contained little or no protein, yet it produced 3.7 +/- 0.3 degrees C of TH at 5 mg/ml, comparable to that of the most active insect antifreeze proteins. Compositional and structural analyses indicated that this antifreeze contains a beta-mannopyranosyl-(1-->4) beta-xylopyranose backbone and a fatty acid component, although the lipid may not be covalently linked to the saccharide. Consistent with the proposed structure, treatment with endo-beta-(1-->4)xylanase ablated TH activity. This xylomannan is the first TH-producing antifreeze isolated from a freeze-tolerant animal and the first in a new class of highly active THFs that contain little or no protein. 
15975908	20050625	Mol._Biol._Cell	D016428 D013485 	Yeast aconitase in two locations and two metabolic pathways: seeing small amounts is believing.	The distribution of identical enzymatic activities between different subcellular compartments is a fundamental process of living cells. At present, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae aconitase enzyme has been detected only in mitochondria, where it functions in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and is considered a mitochondrial matrix marker. We developed two strategies for physical and functional detection of aconitase in the yeast cytosol: 1) we fused the alpha peptide of the beta-galactosidase enzyme to aconitase and observed alpha complementation in the cytosol; and 2) we created an ACO1-URA3 hybrid gene, which allowed isolation of strains in which the hybrid protein is exclusively targeted to mitochondria. These strains display a specific phenotype consistent with glyoxylate shunt elimination. Together, our data indicate that yeast aconitase isoenzymes distribute between two distinct subcellular compartments and participate in two separate metabolic pathways; the glyoxylate shunt in the cytosol and the TCA cycle in mitochondria. We maintain that such dual distribution phenomena have a wider occurrence than recorded currently, the reason being that in certain cases there is a small fraction of one of the isoenzymes, in one of the locations, making its detection very difficult. We term this phenomenon of highly uneven isoenzyme distribution "eclipsed distribution." 
7620809	19950101	Acta_Microbiol_Immunol_Hung	D016428 	Production and some characteristics of beta-glucosidase in Diaporthe (Phomopsis) helianthi.	Diaporthe (Phomopsis) helianthi Munt.-Cvet. et al. is an important phytopathogenic fungus which causes stem canker of sunflower. When grown in submerged cultures in the presence of milled wheat chaff as a carbon source this phytopathogen produced extracellular and intracellular beta-glucosidases. The optimum pH of these enzymes was 4.8. The temperature of crude intracellular beta-glucosidase activity was at 60 degrees C, whereas the optimum activity of crude extracellular beta-glucosidase was observed in a wide range of temperature between 40 and 70 degrees C. Although, extracellular and intracellular beta-glucosidase activities had identical pH and similar temperature optima, the thermal stability of the intracellular enzyme was significantly higher. 
7485973	19950810	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 	Reverse isoelectric focusing procedure resolves charge variants of basic proteins.	Several powerful methods exist which effectively resolve proteins based on their differences in overall change. Among these, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, a method combining isoelectric focusing with sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, can resolve over 1000 proteins with isoelectric points in the range of pH 4-7. However, resolution of basic proteins is poor, even when the pH gradient is extended to a higher pH. Nonequilibrium pH gradient electrophoresis was developed as an alternative procedure to resolve basic proteins. However, samples must be dissolved in urea prior to analysis and this method requires 2000-8000 V-h for optimal resolution. In this report we demonstrate that a simple, rapid procedure, based on nonequilibrium pH gradient electrophoresis, can resolve the single charge variants of two fungal enzymes with isoelectric points greater than 8. This procedure utilizes ready-made materials and requires less than 500 V-h to complete (total run time is less than 2 h). 
21829351	20110811	PLoS_Pathog.	D016428 D013485 	A permeable cuticle is associated with the release of reactive oxygen species and induction of innate immunity.	Wounded leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana show transient immunity to Botrytis cinerea, the causal agent of grey mould. Using a fluorescent probe, histological staining and a luminol assay, we now show that reactive oxygen species (ROS), including H(2)O(2) and O(2) (-), are produced within minutes after wounding. ROS are formed in the absence of the enzymes Atrboh D and F and can be prevented by diphenylene iodonium (DPI) or catalase. H(2)O(2) was shown to protect plants upon exogenous application. ROS accumulation and resistance to B. cinerea were abolished when wounded leaves were incubated under dry conditions, an effect that was found to depend on abscisic acid (ABA). Accordingly, ABA biosynthesis mutants (aba2 and aba3) were still fully resistant under dry conditions even without wounding. Under dry conditions, wounded plants contained higher ABA levels and displayed enhanced expression of ABA-dependent and ABA-reporter genes. Mutants impaired in cutin synthesis such as bdg and lacs2.3 are already known to display a high level of resistance to B. cinerea and were found to produce ROS even when leaves were not wounded. An increased permeability of the cuticle and enhanced ROS production were detected in aba2 and aba3 mutants as described for bdg and lacs2.3. Moreover, leaf surfaces treated with cutinase produced ROS and became more protected to B. cinerea. Thus, increased permeability of the cuticle is strongly linked with ROS formation and resistance to B. cinerea. The amount of oxalic acid, an inhibitor of ROS secreted by B. cinerea could be reduced using plants over expressing a fungal oxalate decarboxylase of Trametes versicolor. Infection of such plants resulted in a faster ROS accumulation and resistance to B. cinerea than that observed in untransformed controls, demonstrating the importance of fungal suppression of ROS formation by oxalic acid. Thus, changes in the diffusive properties of the cuticle are linked with the induction ROS and attending innate defenses. 
6035264	19670901	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Inhibition of the lysis of fungi by melanins.	Evidence is presented that the resistance of Aspergillus nidulans hyphae to lysis by a beta-(1-->3) glucanase-chitinase mixture results from the presence of melanin in the fungal walls. The resistance of the walls to digestion was directly correlated with the melanin content of the mycelium. A melanin-less mutant of A. nidulans was highly susceptible to hydrolysis by the enzyme mixture. Preincubation of a synthetic melanin with the glucanase, chitinase, and a protease, before addition of the substrate, resulted in a marked inhibition of the rate of substrate hydrolysis. Melanin also appeared to combine with and protect at least certain substrates from decomposition, as indicated by the direct relationship between the extent of inhibition of casein hydrolysis by a bacterial protease and the length of time the protein was incubated with the melanin prior to addition of the enzyme. Melanin was found to be highly resistant to microbial degradation, a likely requirement for the polyaromatic to be effective in protecting fungal structures from lysis or decomposition by natural communities of microorganisms. 
19780949	20090929	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous production of the Piromyces equi cinnamoyl esterase in Trichoderma reesei for biotechnological applications.	The objective of the study was to produce and characterize the cinnamoyl esterase EstA from the anaerobic fungus Piromyces equi for potential industrial applications. The catalytic domain EstA was produced in Trichoderma reesei. Because the two fungi displayed different genome features, including different codon usage and GC content, a synthetic gene was designed and expressed, leading to the production of the corresponding protein at around 33 mg per litre in the T. reesei culture medium. After the recombinant protein was purified, biochemical characterization showed that EstA presents peak activity at pH 6.5 and at 50-60 degrees C. Furthermore, EstA remained stable at pH 6-8 and below 50 degrees C. EstA was compared to cinnamoyl esterases FaeA and FaeB from Aspergillus niger in terms of ferulic acid (FA) release from wheat bran (WB), maize bran (MB) and sugar beet pulp (SBP). The synthetic gene was successfully cloned and overexpressed in T. reesei. EstA from P. equi was demonstrated to efficiently release FA from various natural substrates. Recombinant EstA produced in an industrial enzyme producer, T. reesei, was biochemically characterized, and its capacity to release an aromatic compound (FA) for biotechnological applications was demonstrated. 
8077196	19940909	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Aggregation of the intracellular domain of the type 1 tumor necrosis factor receptor defined by the two-hybrid system.	The yeast-based two hybrid system has been used to determine whether oligomerization of the intracellular domain of the 55-kDa type 1 tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor may occur during TNF action. This assay depends upon reconstitution of the function of the GAL4 transcriptional activator through interaction of a protein fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain with a protein fused to the transcriptional activation domain of GAL4. Fusion of the type 1 TNF receptor intracellular domain with the DNA binding domain and the transactivation domain of GAL4 led to activation of the lacZ indicator gene, demonstrating interaction of the receptor intracellular domain with itself. A HeLa cell cDNA library was searched for proteins that interact with the intracellular domain of the type 1 TNF receptor. A protein corresponding to amino acids 329-426 in the type 1 TNF receptor intracellular domain was identified by this screen. The aggregation domain was further defined by testing the ability of deletion mutants of the type 1 TNF receptor intracellular region to interact with the complete intracellular domain. These experiments map the aggregation domain to a sequence of amino acids previously shown to be responsible for mediating TNF-induced cytotoxicity. These results suggest that aggregation of type 1 TNF receptor intracellular domains may be important in TNF signal transduction. 
20354693	20100401	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Cellulase production by Aspergillus niger in biofilm, solid-state, and submerged fermentations.	Cellulase production by Aspergillus niger was compared in three different culture systems: biofilm, solid-state, and submerged fermentation. Biofilm and solid-state fermentations were carried out on perlite as inert support, and lactose was used as a carbon source in the three culture systems. In cryo-scanning electron microscopy, biofilm and solid-state cultures gave similar morphological patterns and confirmed that both spore first attachment and hyphal adhered growth are helped by the production of an adhesive extracellular matrix. Biofilm cultures produced higher cellulase activities than those in submerged and solid-state cultures (1,768, 1,165, and 1,174 U l(-1), respectively). Although biofilm cultures grew less than the other cultures, they produced significantly higher cellulase yields (370, 212, and 217 U g(-1) lactose, respectively) and volumetric productivities (24, 16, and 16 U l(-1) h(-1), respectively). Likewise, endoglucanase and xylanase activities were higher in biofilm cultures. Under the conditions tested, it seems that fungal attached growth on perlite may favor better enzyme production. Biofilms are efficient systems for cellulase production and may replace solid-state fermentation. Biofilm fermentation holds promise for further optimization and development. The results of this work reveal that fungal biofilms may be used for the commercial production of cellulase employing the technology developed for submerged fermentation at high cell densities. 
12662905	20030329	Regul._Toxicol._Pharmacol.	D016428 	Safety evaluation of a glucanase preparation intended for use in food including a subchronic study in rats and mutagenicity studies.	An enzyme preparation containing glucanase produced by the fungus Trichoderma harzianum is intended to be used to improve the clarification and filtration of wines. The safety of a glucanase preparation was assessed in a series of toxicological tests to document its safety in use. Oral administration to rats of up to 10 mL/kg bw/day (equivalent to a total organic solids dosage of 1258 mg/kg bw/day or a glucanase dosage of 1882 BGXU/kg bw/day) for 13 weeks did not cause any adverse effect. The test substance was not found to be mutagenic in the bacterial reverse mutation assay, nor did it cause chromosomal aberrations in cultured human lymphocytes. The safety margin for exposure is estimated to be in the range of 2100-72,000 depending on the estimate for daily wine consumption. The results of these studies demonstrate that an enzyme preparation containing glucanase may be considered safe when employed in wine processing. 
1452095	19920101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	Immobilized beta-glucosidase from Curvularia lunata.	beta-Glucosidase from Curvularia lunata was immobilized in pellets of polyacrylamide, sodium alginate and agar. The activity of the enzyme was estimated at different times by measuring the absorbance of a solution into which 2-nitrophenol was released by the enzyme. The effect of pH and temperature was studied to select the optimum conditions. Thermostability of the beta-glucosidase in each of the carriers was assessed over a period of 12-26 d. The immobilized enzyme on all the three carriers retained its activity longer than free enzyme did. Polyacrylamide was the best carrier both in terms of thermostability and of reusability of the immobilized enzyme preparations. The Michaelis constant (Km) for each of the immobilized enzyme preparation was calculated. 
17009294	20060930	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 	Use of RNA fingerprinting to identify fungal genes specifically expressed during ectomycorrhizal interaction.	The ecosystem soil is characterized by interactions between microorganisms and plants including mycorrhiza--mutualistic interactions between fungi and plant roots. Species of the basidiomycete genus Tricholoma form ectomycorrhiza with tree roots which is characterized by morphological and metabolic changes of both partners, yet molecular mechanisms of the interaction are poorly understood. We performed differential display with arbitrarily primed RT-PCR using ectomycorrhiza between the basidiomycete Tricholoma vaccinum and its compatible host spruce (Picea abies) to isolate mycorrhiza-specific fungal gene fragments. 76 differentially expressed PCR fragments were verified and checked for plant or fungal origin and expression pattern. Of 20 fungal fragments with mycorrhiza-specific expression, sequence analyses were performed to identify homologs with known function of the encoded protein. Among the genes identified were orthologs to an aldehyde dehydrogenase, an alcohol dehydrogenase and a protein of the MATE transporter family, all with possible function in plant pathogen response. A phospholipase B, a beta-glucosidase and a binding protein of basic amino acids might play a role in nutrient exchange and growth in planta. A protein similar to inactive E2 compounds of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes like CROC-1 and MMS2, a Ras protein and an APS kinase were placed in signal transduction and two retrotransposons of the Ty3-gypsy and the Ty1-copia family are expressed most likely due to stress. 
22170011	20111216	Electrophoresis	D016428 D013485 	In situ demonstration and quantitative analysis of the intrinsic properties of glycoside hydrolases.	Based on digital image analysis techniques and a series of optimizations in native electrophoresis, a new direct method to simultaneously detect the intrinsic properties of each active component in the enzymatic system of glycoside hydrolase was established. The key technique is that the concentration changes of substrate (or product) on the gel can be determined quantitatively by the gray value changes of the corresponding band after electrophoretic separation. In this manner, the catalytic characteristics of each glycoside hydrolase component were demonstrated in situ and were easily determined after immersing the gel in a series of solutions containing substrates or their derivatives. Because of its high throughput, great sensitivity, and convenient operation, this method can be used to demonstrate the natural diversity of glycoside hydrolases and to study spatial and temporal regulation in multienzyme expression systems. Thus, it is an effective approach to study the functional proteomics of glycoside hydrolases. 
20978913	20101028	Mycorrhiza	D016428 D013485 	Decomposition of organic matter by the ericoid mycorrhizal endophytes of Formosan rhododendron (Rhododendron formosanum Hemsl.).	Ericoid mycorrhizas are associated with a number of host plants in the Ericaceae in high-elevation regions of Taiwan. The ability of these microorganisms to thrive in harsh environmental conditions in the regions implies their capability of decomposing plant organic matter (raw humus). The objective of this study was to investigate the decomposition characteristics of three ericoid mycorrhizal endophytes isolated from the roots of Formosan rhododendron (Rhododendron formosanum Hemsl.). Molecular analysis indicated that strains Rf9 and Rf32 belong to the genus Cryptosporiopsis while strain Rf28 is a member of the genus Phialocephala. Mycorrhizal synthesis experiment showed that the roots of synthesized seedlings produced hyphal coils, a characteristic of ericoid mycorrhiza. Decomposition ability analysis revealed that strains Rf28 and Rf32 had the highest rates of decomposition of organic matter (up to 10.4% after 70 days) while the value for strain Rf9 was about 6.8%. Consistently, these strains secreted extracellular oxidases when cultured on tannic acid medium. Enzyme assay revealed that strains Rf28 and Rf32 secreted peroxidase, laccase, tyrosinase, and cellulase, but strain Rf9 secreted mainly peroxidase and tyrosinase. Apparently, the differences in secreted hydrolytic enzymes among the three endophytes are related to their ability to decompose organic matter. In the mycorrhizal synthesis experiment, all inoculated seedlings survived in the organic matter substrate for 70 days and exhibited a stronger vigor than the control. This study demonstrated that these three isolated endophytes, Rf9, Rf28, and Rf32, are ericoid mycorrhizal fungi, capable of forming ericoid mycorrhiza with Formosan rhododendron. Meanwhile, all three endophytes can secrete hydrolytic enzymes to decompose organic matter for growth, presumably a prerequisite for the adaptation of Formosan rhododendron to the harsh environments of high elevation. 
21964940	20111004	Curr._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 	Holocellulase activity from Schizophyllum commune grown on bamboo: a comparison with different substrates.	The natural biodiversity that is found in tropical areas offers countless biotechnological opportunities; especially if we take in account that many biomolecules from several microorganisms have supported for many years, different industrial applications in areas such as pharmacology, agro-industry, bioprocess, environmental technology, and bioconversion. In order to find new lignocellulolytic enzymes and evaluate bamboo fibers as substrate, Schizophyllum commune a fungus with broad distribution was isolated and grown during 15 days in liquid culture medium containing 1% lignocellulosic fibers from bamboo, banana stem, and sugarcane bagasse. The enzymatic activity of xylanase, mannanase, polygalacturonase, CMCase, FPase, and avicelase were evaluated. Sugarcane bagasse and banana stem showed to induce higher hollocellulase activity when compared with bamboo as the main carbon source. The physical mechanism that the fungus uses to degrade bamboo was observed not only in fibers naturally infected but also in healthy fibers that were treated and untreated with enzyme solution. SEM analysis showed the structural disruption and invasion of the vascular bundles, parenchyma cells, and parenchymatous tissues as a consequence of the presence of this fungus and the catalytic action of its enzymes into the plant tissue. 
21617347	20110528	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of an extracellular beta-glucosidase produced by Phoma sp. KCTC11825BP isolated from rotten mandarin peel.	A beta-glucosidase from Phoma sp. KCTC11825BP isolated from rotten mandarin peel was purified 8.5-fold with a specific activity of 84.5 U/mg protein. The purified enzyme had a molecular mass of 440 kDa with a subunit of 110 kDa. The partial amino acid sequence of the purified beta-glucosidase evidenced high homology with the fungal beta- glucosidases belonging to glycosyl hydrolase family 3. Its optimal activity was detected at pH 4.5 and 60 degrees C, and the enzyme had a half-life of 53 h at 60 degrees C. The Km values for p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside and cellobiose were 0.3 mM and 3.2 mM, respectively. The enzyme was competitively inhibited by both glucose (Ki=1.7 mM) and glucono-delta-lactone (Ki=0.1 mM) when pNPG was used as the substrate. Its activity was inhibited by 41% by 10 mM Cu2+ and stimulated by 20% by 10 mM Mg2+. 
14673545	20031216	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of an N-acetylglucosaminidase produced by a Trichoderma harzianum strain which controls Crinipellis perniciosa.	Isolate 1051 of Trichoderma harzianum, a mycoparasitic fungus, was found to impair development of the phytopathogen, Crinipellis perniciosa, in the field. This Trichoderma strain growing in liquid medium containing chitin produced substantial amounts of chitinases. The N-acetylglucosaminidase present in the culture-supernatant was purified to homogeneity by gel filtration and hydrophobic interaction chromatography, as demonstrated by SDS-PAGE analysis. The enzyme had a molecular mass of 36 kDa and hydrolyzed the synthetic substrate rho-nitrophenyl-N-acetylglucosaminide (rhoNGlcNAc) with Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Maximal activities were determined at pH 4.0 and a temperature range of 50-60 degrees C. Km and Vmax values for rhoNGlcNAc hydrolysis were 8.06 micromoles ml(-1) and 3.36 micromoles ml(-1) min(-1), respectively, at pH 6.0 and 37 degrees C. The enzyme was very sensitive to Fe3+, Mn2+ and Co2+ ions, but less sensitive to Zn2+, Al3+, Cu2+ and Ca2+. Glucose at a final concentration of 1 mM inhibited 65% of the original activity of the purified enzyme. Determination of the product (reducing sugar) of hydrolysis of C. perniciosa mycelium and scanning electron microscopic analysis revealed that the N-acetylglucosaminidase hydrolyses the C. perniciosa cell wall. 
7975893	19940601	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Yeast exo-beta-glucanases can be used as efficient and readily detectable reporter genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Yeast exo-1,3-beta-glucanases are secretable proteins whose function is basically trophic and may also be involved in cell wall glucan hydrolytic processes. Since fluorescein di(beta-D-glucopyranoside) is a fluorogenic substrate detectable and quantifiable by flow cytometry, it was used for testing the ability of the EXG1 gene product of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its homologous gene in Candida albicans to function as reporter genes. These open reading frames were coupled to different promoters in multicopy plasmids, and exoglucanase activity quantified at flow cytometry. Exoglucanases were found to be useful tools for the study of promoter regions in S. cerevisiae. This technique has the advantage over other reporter gene systems--such as beta-galactosidase fusions--that it does not require permeabilization of yeast cells and therefore it allows the recovery of viable cells--by sorting--after flow cytometry analysis. 
3566760	19870330	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 	Chitin oligosaccharides as elicitors of chitinase activity in melon plants.	Chitin oligosaccharides elicited chitinase activity in melon plants. Hexamer to nonamer were the most efficient elicitors: hexamer for maximal stimulation of colorimetrically assessed chitinase activity, heptamer for maximal stimulation of radiochemically assessed chitinase activity. Chitinase elicitation was a rapid response to these elicitors: it occurred within 6 hours after treatment and was maximal at 12-24 hours. In addition, chitinase induction in melon plants by these oligosaccharides was both local and systemic. 
19818460	20091013	Phytochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Partial purification and characterization of three ginsenoside-metabolizing beta-glucosidases from Pythium irregulare.	The ginseng pathogen Pythium irregulare is able to selectively metabolize the 20(S) protopanaxadiol ginsenosides Rb1, Rb2, Rc, Rd, and gypenoside XVII via extracellular glycosidases, leading to the formation and partial assimilation of ginsenoside F2. Herein we have partially purified three ginsenoside-deglycosylating enzymes from P. irregulare culture filtrates, and provide preliminary characterization. A protocol involving acetone precipitation, chromatofocusing on PBE 94, gel filtration on Sephacryl S-200 HR and ion-exchange on Q Sepharose Fast Flow resulted in a 13-25-fold purification. The three enzymes were induced in cultures grown in the presence of ginsenosides, and found to be acidic proteins (pI of 4.5-5.0), consisting of an apparent high molecular weight (approximately 160 kDa) homodimer of 78 kDa subunits, with beta(1-->6) activity, and two monomeric enzymes of 61 and 57 kDa, with beta(1-->2) activity. Primary sequence analysis identified them as beta-glucosidases, with no homology to other saponin-deglycosylating enzymes. These are the first glycosidases purified from a Pythium species. We speculate that their role is likely to help Pythium find its host, and/or obtain nutrients/growth factors from its environment. 
22305911	20120207	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulose affinity purification of fusion proteins tagged with fungal family 1 cellulose-binding domain.	N- or C-terminal fusions of red-fluorescent protein (RFP) with various fungal cellulose-binding domains (CBDs) belonging to carbohydrate binding module (CBM) family 1 were expressed in a Pichia pastoris expression system, and the resulting fusion proteins were used to examine the feasibility of large-scale affinity purification of CBD-tagged proteins on cellulose columns. We found that RFP fused with CBD from Trichoderma reesei CBHI (CBD(Tr)(CBHI)) was expressed at up to 1.2g/l in the culture filtrate, which could be directly injected into the cellulose column. The fusion protein was tightly adsorbed on the cellulose column in the presence of a sufficient amount of ammonium sulfate and was efficiently eluted with pure water. Bovine serum albumin (BSA) was not captured under these conditions, whereas both BSA and the fusion protein were adsorbed on a phenyl column, indicating that the cellulose column can be used for the purification of not only hydrophilic proteins but also for hydrophobic proteins. Recovery of various fusion proteins exceeded 80%. Our results indicate that protein purification by expression of a target protein as a fusion with a fungal family 1 CBD tag in a yeast expression system, followed by affinity purification on a cellulose column, is simple, effective and easily scalable. 
17953595	20071024	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 	Evaluation of fungal culture filtrate containing chitinase as a biocontrol agent against Helicoverpa armigera.	To evaluate the biocontrol efficacy of culture filtrate containing chitinase from Trichoderma harzianum against Heliothis. T. harzianum was cultured by submerged fermentation using colloidal chitin as sole carbon source. The ability of the culture filtrate to hydrolyse colloidal chitin indicated the presence of chitinase as one of its components. Biocontrol assay on Heliothis showed that the culture filtrate is a potent antifeedant as it reduced the feeding rate and body weight of the larvae. It reduced the successful pupation and increased larval and pupal mortality in a dosage-dependent manner when applied topically. The highest mortalities (70%) were recorded for groups treated with 2000 U ml(-1) chitinase activity. The percentage of adult emergence was zero for the highest chitinase concentration (2000 U ml(-1)) tried. The studies showed that the culture filtrate containing chitinase from T. harzianum is capable of negatively affecting the growth and metamorphosis of Heliothis larvae. In view of the need for safer and environmentally friendly pest management tools, the present study could help in the development of enzyme-based biopesticides against Heliothis. 
22512872	20120420	Mol._Plant_Pathol.	D016428 	Truncation of class IV chitinases from Arabidopsis by secreted fungal proteases.	Plant class IV chitinases have a small amino-terminal chitin-binding domain and a larger chitinase domain, and are involved in plant defence against fungal infection. Our previous work on the chitinases ChitA and ChitB from the model monocotyledon Zea mays showed that the chitin-binding domain is removed by secreted fungal proteases called fungalysins. In this article, we extend this work to dicotyledons. The effects of fungalysin-like proteases on four class IV chitinases from the model dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana were analysed. Four Arabidopsis chitinases were heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris, purified and shown to have chitinase activity against a chitohexaose (dp6) substrate. The incubation of these four chitinases with Fv-cmp, a fungalysin protease secreted by Fusarium verticillioides, resulted in the truncation of AtchitIV3 and AtchitIV5. Moreover, incubation with secreted proteins from Alternaria brassicae, a pathogen of A. thaliana and brassica crops, also led to a similar truncation of AtchitIV3 and AtchitIV4. Our finding that class IV chitinases from both dicotyledons (A. thaliana) and monocotyledons (Z. mays) are truncated by proteases secreted by specialized pathogens of each plant suggests that this may be a general mechanism of plant-fungal pathogenicity. 
20400566	20100420	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013486 	Comparative transcriptome and secretome analysis of wood decay fungi Postia placenta and Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	Cellulose degradation by brown rot fungi, such as Postia placenta, is poorly understood relative to the phylogenetically related white rot basidiomycete, Phanerochaete chrysosporium. To elucidate the number, structure, and regulation of genes involved in lignocellulosic cell wall attack, secretome and transcriptome analyses were performed on both wood decay fungi cultured for 5 days in media containing ball-milled aspen or glucose as the sole carbon source. Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), a total of 67 and 79 proteins were identified in the extracellular fluids of P. placenta and P. chrysosporium cultures, respectively. Viewed together with transcript profiles, P. chrysosporium employs an array of extracellular glycosyl hydrolases to simultaneously attack cellulose and hemicelluloses. In contrast, under these same conditions, P. placenta secretes an array of hemicellulases but few potential cellulases. The two species display distinct expression patterns for oxidoreductase-encoding genes. In P. placenta, these patterns are consistent with an extracellular Fenton system and include the upregulation of genes involved in iron acquisition, in the synthesis of low-molecular-weight quinones, and possibly in redox cycling reactions. 
10662860	20000209	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013485 D013486 	The Cochliobolus carbonum SNF1 gene is required for cell wall-degrading enzyme expression and virulence on maize.	The production of cell wall-degrading enzymes (wall depolymerases) by plant pathogenic fungi is under catabolite (glucose) repression. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the SNF1 gene is required for expression of catabolite-repressed genes when glucose is limiting. An ortholog of SNF1, ccSNF1, was isolated from the maize pathogen Cochliobolus carbonum, and ccsnf1 mutants of HC toxin-producing (Tox2(+)) and HC toxin-nonproducing (Tox2(-)) strains were created by targeted gene replacement. Growth in vitro of the ccsnf1 mutants was reduced by 50 to 95% on complex carbon sources such as xylan, pectin, or purified maize cell walls. Growth on simple sugars was affected, depending on the sugar. Whereas growth on glucose, fructose, or sucrose was normal, growth on galactose, galacturonic acid, maltose, or xylose was somewhat reduced, and growth on arabinose was strongly reduced. Production of HC toxin was normal in the Tox2(+) ccsnf1 mutant, as were conidiation, conidial morphology, conidial germination, and in vitro appressorium formation. Activities of secreted beta-1,3-glucanase, pectinase, and xylanase in culture filtrates of the Tox2(+) ccsnf1 mutant were reduced by 53, 24, and 65%, respectively. mRNA expression was downregulated under conditions that induced the following genes encoding secreted wall-degrading enzymes: XYL1, XYL2, XYL3, XYL4, XYP1, ARF1, MLG1, EXG1, PGN1, and PGX1. The Tox2(+) ccsnf1 mutant was much less virulent on susceptible maize, forming fewer spreading lesions; however, the morphology of the lesions was unchanged. The Tox2(-) ccsnf1 mutant also formed fewer nonspreading lesions, which also retained their normal morphology. The results indicate that ccSNF1 is required for biochemical processes important in pathogenesis by C. carbonum and suggest that penetration is the single most important step at which ccSNF1 is required. The specific biochemical processes controlled by ccSNF1 probably include, but are not necessarily restricted to, the ability to degrade polymers of the plant cell wall and to take up and metabolize the sugars produced. 
18831195	20081004	Zhongguo_Zhong_Yao_Za_Zhi	D004740 D016428 	[Study function of endophytic fungus in parasitism process of mistletoe].	To research the function of endophytes of mistletoe in parasitism process of mistletoe in Pterocarya stenoptera. Endophytes from eight different parts of the mistletoe were separated by explant culture, and further screened by different CMC plates culture and DNS method to get cellulase high productive strains. The distribution of the endophytic fungus parasitized in mistletoe were prepared and stained to demonstrate by histological section of the intumescentia part of the P. stenoptera. The histological section indicated that aboundent of hyphasma were distributed around the haustorium of the mistletoe. Eighty three strains of endophytic fungus were separated, 38 of them were able to degrade cellulose, 19 strains showed high cellulase activity and 10 of which were separated from the parasitic position. Endophytic fungus of mistletoe can secrete cellulase and assist the haustorium of mistletoe to breakthrough the cell walls as well as intercellular space tissues of the P. stenoptera, thus, the endophytic fungus plays an important role in the parasitism process of mistletoe in P. stenoptera. 
1207723	19751223	Mycopathologia	D016428 	A critical study of the taxonomic value of some tests of assimilation used for the classification of the sporogenous yeasts.	Six texts of assimilation used in the taxonomy of yeasts, (lactose, maltose, cellobiose, trehalose, melibiose, sucrose) have been critically tested by the examination of intracellular enzymic systems. The results obtained among the sporogenous species of Saccharomyces, Kluyveromyces, Pichia, Hansenula, Debaryomyces indicate that cellobiose, lactose, maltose and trehalose tests no longer supply an important value for the speciation, because the number of cryptical osidases is so high. 
15479235	20041014	Eur._J._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 	A steady-state modeling approach to validate an in vivo mechanism of the GAL regulatory network in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Cellular regulation is a result of complex interactions arising from DNA-protein and protein-protein binding, autoregulation, and compartmentalization and shuttling of regulatory proteins. Experiments in molecular biology have identified these mechanisms recruited by a regulatory network. Mathematical models may be used to complement the knowledge-base provided by in vitro experimental methods. Interactions identified by in vitro experiments can lead to the hypothesis of multiple candidate models explaining the in vivo mechanism. The equilibrium dissociation constants for the various interactions and the total component concentration constitute constraints on the candidate models. In this work, we identify the most plausible in vivo network by comparing the output response to the experimental data. We demonstrate the methodology using the GAL system of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for which the steady-state analysis reveals that Gal3p neither dimerizes nor shuttles between the cytoplasm and the nucleus. 
11872116	20020302	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Changes in activity of extracellular enzymes in dual cultures of Lentinula edodes and mycoparasitic Trichoderma strains.	The main problem that arises during the cultivation of Lentinula edodes, the Asian Shiitake mushroom, is that the logs on which the cultivation is performed are contaminated by competing micro-organisms, especially Trichoderma spp. The aim of this study was to examine the changes in activity of extracellular enzymes in dual cultures of Trichoderma spp. and L. edodes. Extracellular enzyme activities were determined spectrophotometrically. Trichoderma enzymes important for the degradation of fungal cell walls (N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and laminarinase) were shown to be induced by inactive L. edodes mycelia in liquid culture. The changes that occurred in the extracellular enzyme activities of L. edodes and mycoparasitic Trichoderma spp. (T. aureoviride, T. harzianum and T. viride) were examined during antagonistic interactions on solid medium. The extracellular enzyme patterns of both partners proved to be altered. Trichoderma spp. were induced to produce N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and laminarinase in the presence of active L. edodes mycelia, similarly as observed in liquid culture. The activities of both laccase and manganese peroxidase of L. edodes decreased after physical contact with active Trichoderma mycelia, possibly in consequence of the beginning of degradation of L. edodes by the Trichoderma enzymes. However, besides a decrease in manganese peroxidase activity, an enhancement of L. edodes laccase activity was observed on solid media containing crude culture fluids from Trichoderma liquid cultures. The metabolites responsible for these effects proved to be heat stable. Induction and inhibition of several extracellular enzymes of both partners were shown in dual cultures of L. edodes and Trichoderma strains, indicating the important role of these enzymes in the antagonistic interaction between the two species. As the main problem during the large-scale cultivation of L. edodes is the contamination of the growth substrate by Trichoderma mycelia, the particular knowledge of the mechanism of this competition might be relevant. 
24455866	20140125	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of pectin lyase secreted by Aspergillus flavus MTCC 10938.	An indigenously isolated fungal strain Aspergillus flavus MTCC 10938 was subjected to pectin lyase (PNL) production under submerged fermentation conditions. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity from the culture filtrate of the fungus involving concentration by ultrafiltration, anion exchange chromatography on DEAE cellulose and gel filtration chromatography on Sephadex G-100. The purified PNL gave a single protein band in SDS-PAGE analysis with a relative molecular mass corresponding to 50 kDa. Using citrus pectin as the substrate the K(m) and k(cat) values of the enzyme lyase were obtained as 1.7 mg/mL and 66 s(-1), respectively. The optimum pH of the purified PNL from A. flavus MTCC 10938 was 8.0 and up to 90% of its activity retained in the pH range from 3.0 to 11.0 after 24 h incubation. The optimum temperature of the purified enzyme was revealed at 55 degrees C and it was completely stable up to 40 degrees C when exposed for 30 min. The purified A. flavus MTCC 10938 PNL showed efficient retting of Crotalaria juncea fibres. 
12732966	20030507	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Function of a low molecular weight peptide from Trichoderma pseudokoningii S38 during cellulose biodegradation.	The biochemical mechanism for cellulose decomposition by a low molecular weight peptide, named short fiber generating factor (SFGF), derived from the culture supernatant of a cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma pseudokoningii S-38, was determined. Sufficient information obtained by biochemical and biophysical studies and combined with observation with a scanning electron microscope provided further evidence for the earlier studies that the SFGF had a high capacity for chelating and reducing ferric ions, and could produce free radical by reduction of Fe(3+) to Fe(2+) in the presence of oxygen molecule. These studies suggested that the effect of SFGF on cellulose is directly related to an oxidative reaction and is different from the hydrolysis of cellulose by cellulases. The alcoholic hydroxyl groups in cellulose can be oxidized by SFGF, which leads to destruction of the hydrogen bond network in cellulose and cleavage of glycosidic linkages. Both effects led to the de-polymerization of cellulose and the formation of short fibers, and increase of reducing groups in residual cellulose, then the cellulose substrates became more susceptible for hydrolysis by cellulases. 
22887329	20120814	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Biased clique shuffling reveals stabilizing mutations in cellulase Cel7A.	Renewable fuels produced from biomass-derived sugars are receiving increasing attention. Lignocellulose-degrading enzymes derived from fungi are attractive for saccharification of biomass because they can be produced at higher titers and at significantly less cost than those produced by bacteria or archaea. However, their properties can be suboptimal; for example, they are subject to product inhibition and are sensitive to small changes in pH. Furthermore, increased thermostability would be advantageous for saccharification as increased temperature may reduce the opportunity for microbial contamination. We have developed a mutagenesis platform to improve these properties and applied it to increase the operating temperature and thermostability of the fungal glycosyl hydrolase Cel7A. Secretion of Cel7A at titers of 26 mg/L with limited hyperglycosylation was achieved using a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain with upregulated protein disulfide isomerase, an engineered α-factor prepro leader, and deletion of a plasma membrane ATPase. Using biased clique shuffling (BCS) of 11 Cel7A genes, we generated a small library (469) rich in activity (86% of the chimeras were active) and identified 51 chimeras with improved thermostability, many of which contained mutations in the loop networks that extend over the enzyme's active site. This BCS library was far superior as a source of active and stable chimeras compared to an equimolar library prepared from the same 11 genes. 
19862512	20091029	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Purification, characterization, and mode of action of a rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase from Irpex lacteus, tolerant to an acetylated substrate.	A novel rhamnogalacturonase (RGase) acting on an acetylated substrate was detected in the commercial preparation Driselase, an enzymatic mixture derived from the basidiomycete Irpex lacteus. The activity was isolated by hydrophobic interaction chromatography, gel filtration, and preparative isoelectric focusing, resulting in the isolation of five different rhamnogalacturonan hydrolases exhibiting various isoelectric points from 6.2 to 7.7. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry analyses after trypsin cleavage of the five fractions revealed that the five rhamnogalacturonases have a molar mass of 55 kDa without any divergences in the identified peptides. The RGase with a pI of 7.2 exhibited a pH optimum between 4.5 and 5 and a temperature optimum between 40 degrees C and 50 degrees C. Its mode of action was analyzed by mass spectrometry of the oligosaccharides produced after hydrolysis of acetylated and nonacetylated rhamnogalacturonan. Oligomers esterified by an acetyl group on the reducing galacturonic acid residue or fully acetylated were detected in the hydrolysate showing that the novel enzyme is able to bind acetylated galacturonic acid in its active site. 
15094199	20040420	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Isolation, characterization and expression of the hex1 gene from Trichoderma reesei.	Polymers of the HEX1 protein produce Woronin bodies in filamentous fungi. We have isolated and sequenced the hex1 gene and flanking regions from the industrially exploited fungus Trichoderma reesei. Multiple transcription start sites (TSS) and the 5' untranslated region (UTR) were identified by 5'RACE PCR. There are three hex1 transcript types, two of which originate from two TSSs at approximately -320 and -1335 from the start codon, which are separated by a 500-bp intron within the 5'UTR. The third transcript type results from alternative splicing of the intron within the coding sequence at the 3' end, which results in the inclusion or exclusion of an unconserved histidine-rich coding region. The three transcripts code for two forms of HEX1 protein. N-terminal sequencing of HEX1 separated by 2D gel electrophoresis confirms that there are two forms of HEX1 protein which are modified further by alternative cleavage of the N-terminus. The dominant form of HEX1 is coded by a cDNA with TSS at position -1335. Expression of hex1 on cellulase-inducing medium peaks strongly within 24 h of growth but the protein is expressed at a lower and more consistent level in medium containing glucose. This is the first investigation of expression of the hex1 gene encoding a protein unique to filamentous fungi. 
24031896	20130914	Braz._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Variability in the production of extracellular enzymes by entomopathogenic fungi grown on different substrates.	Entomopathogenic fungi are important controllers of pest-insects populations in agricultural production systems and in natural environment. These fungi have enzymatic machinery which involve since the recognition and adherence of spores in their hosts culminating with infection and death of these insects. The main objective of this study was to analyzed extracellular enzyme production of the fungi strains Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium anisopliae and Paecilomyces sp when cultured on substrates. These fungi were grown in minimal media containing specific substrates for the analysis of different enzymes such as amylases, cellulases, esterases, lipases, proteases (gelatin and caseinase), pectinases and cuticles of Musca domestica larvae and adults. All the assays were performed with and without the presence of dextrose in the culture media. The quantification of enzyme activity was performed by the ratio of halo / colony (H/C) and the results subjected to variance analysis level of 5% (ANOVA) followed by post-Tukey test. All strains were positive for lipase and also they showed a high significant enzyme production for gelatin at concentrations of 4 and 1%. B. bassiana and Paecilomyces sp. were positive for amylase, pectinase and caseinase, and only Paecilomyces sp. showed cellulase activity.  
10806354	20000512	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Cloning, characterization and chromosomal location of three genes encoding host-cell-wall-degrading enzymes in Leptosphaeria maculans, a fungal pathogen of Brassica spp.	The ascomycete, Leptosphaeria maculans, causes blackleg disease of oilseed Brassica spp. such as canola (Brassica napus). We have cloned a gene encoding endopolygalacturonase, pg1, and two genes encoding cellulases, cel1 and cel2, in L. maculans. These genes are not clustered in the genome, as they are located on different chromosomes. The deduced amino acid sequences of all three genes predict an N-terminal signal sequence, as is common for secreted fungal enzymes that degrade plant cell walls. The endopolygalacturonase encoded by pg1 shows the highest similarity (54% amino acid identity) to endopolygalacturonase 4 from Botrytis cinerea. Both cel1 and cel2 appear to encode cellobiohydrolase, and neither gene encodes a recognizable cellulose-binding domain or linker region. Transcription of pg1 is induced in cultures containing 1% polygalacturonic acid or pectin, and cel1 is induced in 1% cellulose or carboxymethylcellulose, as shown by Northern analysis. Glucose represses the induction of cel1 caused by cellulose and carboxymethylcellulose, but does affect transcription of pg1. Transcription of cel2 (but not cel1 or pg1) is detectable during infection of B. napus and B. juncea cotyledons and leaves using reverse transcription-PCR. 
18686970	20080809	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Optimization of growth of Lactobacillus acidophilus FTCC 0291 and evaluation of growth characteristics in soy whey medium: a response surface methodology approach.	Four strains of probiotics were evaluated for their alpha-galactosidase activity. Lactobacillus acidophilus FTCC 0291 displayed the highest specific alpha-galactosidase activity and was thus selected to be optimized in soy whey medium supplemented with seven nitrogen sources. The first-order model showed that meat extract, vegetable extract, and peptone significantly (P < 0.05) influenced the growth of L. acidophilus. The second-order polynomial regression estimated that maximum growth was obtained from the combination of 7.25% (w/v) meat extract, 4.7% (w/v) vegetable extract, and 6.85% (w/v) peptone. The validation experiment showed that response surface methodology was reliable with a variation of only 1.14% from the actual experimental data. Increased utilization of oligosaccharides and reducing sugars contributed to increased growth of L. acidophilus in the soy whey medium. This was accompanied by increased production of short-chain fatty acids and a decrease in pH. 
16396249	20060107	Med._Mycol.	D016428 D013485 	Recognition of extracellular matrix proteins by Paracoccidioides brasiliensis yeast cells.	The adhesion of microorganism to host cells or extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins is the first step in the establishment of an infectious process. Interaction between Paracoccidioides brasiliensis yeast cells and ECM proteins has been previously noted. In vivo, in the chronic phase of experimental paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM), laminin and fibronectin have been detected on the surface of yeast cells located inside granulomatous lesions. The aim of the present study was to examine the ability of P. brasiliensis yeast cells to interact with extracellular matrix proteins (laminin, fibrinogen and fibronectin) and to establish which molecules were involved in this interaction. Immunofluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry demonstrated that all three ECM proteins tested were able to bind to the surface of P. brasiliensis yeast cells. Treatment with trypsin, chymotrypsin, chitinase, proteinase K or different sugars resulted in no change in laminin binding. In addition, ligand affinity assays were performed using different yeast extracts (total homogenates, beta-mercaptoethanol, SDS extracts). These assays demonstrated the presence of 19 and 32-kDa proteins in the cell wall with the ability to bind to laminin, fibrinogen and fibronectin. This interaction could be important in mediating attachment of the fungus to host tissues and may consequently play a role in the pathogenesis of PCM. 
20532758	20100610	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Proteins with antifungal properties and other medicinal applications from plants and mushrooms.	Living organisms produce a myriad of molecules to protect themselves from fungal pathogens. This review focuses on antifungal proteins from plants and mushrooms, many of which are components of the human diet or have medicinal value. Plant antifungal proteins can be classified into different groups comprising chitinases and chitinase-like proteins, chitin-binding proteins, cyclophilin-like proteins, defensins and defensin-like proteins, deoxyribonucleases, embryo-abundant protein-like proteins, glucanases, lectins, lipid transfer proteins, peroxidases, protease inhibitors, ribonucleases, ribosome-inactivating proteins, storage 2S albumins, and thaumatin-like proteins. Some of the aforementioned antifungal proteins also exhibit mitogenic activity towards spleen cells, nitric oxide inducing activity toward macrophages, antiproliferative activity toward tumor cells, antibacterial activity, and inhibitory activity toward HIV-1 reverse transcriptase. In contrast to the large diversity of plant antifungal proteins, only a small number of mushroom antifungal proteins have been reported. Mushroom antifungal proteins are distinct from their plant counterparts in N-terminal sequence. Nevertheless, some of the mushroom antifungal proteins have been shown to inhibit HIV-1 reverse transcriptase activity and tumor cell proliferation. 
23544613	20130403	Biomacromolecules	D016428 D013485 	Enzyme-catalyzed synthesis of aliphatic-aromatic oligoamides.	Enzymatically catalyzed polycondensation of p-xylylenediamine and diethyl sebacate resulted in oligo(p-xylylene sebacamide) with high melting temperatures (223-230 °C) and the enzymatic polycondensation of dimethyl terephthalate and 1,8-diaminooctane leads to oligo(octamethylene terephthalamide) with two melting temperatures at 186 and 218 °C. No oligoamides, but products 1 and 2, were formed from the enzymatic reaction of dimethyl terephthalate and p-xylylenediamine. All reactions were catalyzed by CAL-B, icutinase, or CLEA cutinase. All reactions catalyzed by CAL-B show higher conversion than reactions catalyzed by icutinase or CLEA cutinase. The highest DPmax of 15 was achieved in a one-step and two-step synthesis of oligo(p-xylylene sebacamide) catalyzed by CLEA cutinase. 
24429995	20140117	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Exocellular β-mannanases from hemicellulolytic fungi.	Production of exocellular β-mannan- and xylan-degrading enzymes by eight wood rotting fungi was studied. Although all organisms excreted β-mannanase, endoxyfanase and acetylxylan esterase, production ofL-α-arabinosidase and 4-O-methylglucuronidase was variable. β-Mannanosidase was not detected in any culture filltrate. Righest β-mannanase and endoxylanase activities were observed in cultures ofPolyporus versicolor andSchizophyllum commune grown in Avicel-supplemented media. While crude β-mannanases fromLinzites saepiria andS. commune exhibited equivalent affinities for gluco- and galactomannan substrates,P. versicolor β-mannanase preferred a glucomannan substrate and did not use galactomannan from guar sum as a substrate.  
17242851	20070124	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of a beta-1,3-glucanase from the novel mycoparasite Periconia byssoides.	An extracellular beta-1,3-glucanase with antifungal properties was secreted by the novel mycoparasite, Periconia byssoides. The glucanase has a molecular mass of 35 kDa estimated by SDS-PAGE. Its optimum activity was at pH 6.0 and 50 degrees C (over 2 h). The purified beta-1,3-glucanase was capable of degrading cell walls, and inhibiting mycelia growth and spore germination of plant pathogenic fungi including Fulvia fulva, Fusarium sp. and Rhizoctonia solani. The N-terminal amino acid residues of the purified beta-1,3-glucanase are LKNGGPSFGA, which do not have any homology with previously described glucanases, suggesting it may be a novel member of the fungal beta-1,3-glucanases. 
2785629	19890101	Mol._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Three alpha-amylase genes of Aspergillus oryzae exhibit identical intron-exon organization.	We have cloned three genes (amy1, amy2 and amy3) encoding alpha-amylase in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae. The established overall sequences have a very high degree of homology, showing divergences mainly in the 3'-untranslated regions. The positions and the sequences of the eight introns were found to be absolutely identical in the three genes. The sequence analysis of the 5'-regions revealed presumptive TATA, CAAT and GC boxes. Primer extension analysis was performed to determine the transcription start. We were able to detect mRNAs from amy1 and amy3 but not from amy2 with gene-specific oligonucleotide probes complementary to the 3'-noncoding regions. 
9133641	19970417	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Trehalose accumulation in mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae deleted in the UDPG-dependent trehalose synthase-phosphatase complex.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, trehalose-6-phosphate synthase converts uridine-5'-diphosphoglucose and glucose 6-phosphate to trehalose 6-phosphate which is dephosphorylated by trehalose 6-phosphatase to trehalose. These two steps take place within a complex consisting of three proteins: trehalose-6-phosphate synthase encoded by the GGS1/TPS1 (= FDP1, = BYP1, = CIF1) gene, trehalose 6-phosphatase encoded by the TPS2 gene and by a third protein encoded by both the TSL1 and TPS3 genes. Using three different methods for trehalose determination, we observed trehalose accumulation in ggs1/tps1delta, tps2delta and tsl1delta mutants, and in the double mutants ggs1/tps1delta/tps2delta and also in ggs1/tps1delta deleted mutants suppressed for growth on glucose. All these mutants harbor MAL genes. Trehalose synthesis in these mutants is probably performed by the adenosine-5'-diphosphoglucose-dependent trehalose synthase, (ADPG-dependent trehalose synthase) which was detected in all strains tested. It is noteworthy that trehalose accumulation in these mutants was detected only in cells grown on weakly repressive carbon sources such as maltose and galactose or during the transition phase from fermentable to non-fermentable growth on glucose. alpha-Glucosidase activity was always present in high amounts. We also describe an adenosine-diphosphoglucosepyrophosphorylase (ADPG-pyrophosphorylase) activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae which increased concomitantly with the accumulation of trehalose during the transition phase from fermentable to non-fermentable growth in MAL-constitutive (MAL2-8c) strains. The same was observed when MAL-induced (MAL1) strains were compared during growth on glucose and maltose. These results led us to conclude that maltose-induced trehalose accumulation is independent of the UDPG-dependent trehalose-6-phosphate synthase/phosphatase complex; that the ADPG-dependent trehalose synthase is responsible for maltose-induced trehalose accumulation probably by forming a complex with a specific trehalose-6-phosphatase activity and that ADPG synthesis is activated during trehalose accumulation under these conditions. 
18460801	20080508	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of recombinant endoglucanases from the pine wood nematode Bursaphelenchus xylophilus.	A family of endoglucanases belonging to glycoside hydrolase family (GHF) 45 have been isolated from the pine wood nematode Bursaphelenchus xylophilus. Here we describe the purification and characterization of the recombinant enzymes, named Bx-ENG-1, 2, and 3, expressed in Pichia pastoris. The respective molecular masses of purified Bx-ENG-1, 2, and 3 were estimated to be 18, 33-39, and 100-140 kDa by SDS-PAGE, and 18, 67, and 252 kDa by gel filtration, suggesting that Bx-ENG-1 existed in an unglycosylated monomeric form and Bx-ENG-2 and Bx-ENG-3 in a glycosylated dimeric form. The enzymatic properties of the recombinant enzymes were similar to each other: optimal activity at 60 degrees C at about pH 6.0, like other endoglucanases of GHF45. The recombinant enzymes displayed the highest activity toward lichenan, and lower activities were observed on carboxymethyl cellulose and amorphous cellulose. Nematode enzymes also hydrolyzed glucomannan, the most abundant hemicellulose in the cell walls of softwood. These substrate specificities suggest that B. xylophilus endoglucanases acted on the cellulose-hemicellulose complex in the cell walls, resulting in a weakening of the mechanical strength of the cell walls to facilitate the nematode's feeding on plant cells. 
14763977	20040207	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	The galactokinase of Hypocrea jecorina is essential for cellulase induction by lactose but dispensable for growth on d-galactose.	Lactose is the only soluble carbon source which can be used economically for the production of cellulases or heterologous proteins under cellulase expression signals by Hypocrea jecorina (=Trichoderma reesei). Towards an understanding of lactose metabolism and its role in cellulase formation, we have cloned and characterized the gal1 (galactokinase) gene of H. jecorina, which catalyses the first step in d-galactose catabolism. It exhibits a calculated Mr of 57 kDa, and shows moderate identity (about 40%) to its putative homologues of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Kluyveromyces lactis. Gal1 is a member of the GHMP family, shows conservation of a Gly/Ser rich region involved in ATP binding and of amino acids (Arg 51, Glu 57, Asp 60, Asp 214, Tyr 270) responsible for galactose binding. A single transcript was formed constitutively during the rapid growth phase on all carbon sources investigated and accumulated to about twice this level during growth on d-galactose, l-arabinose and their corresponding polyols. Deletion of gal1 reduces growth on d-galactose but does only slightly affect growth on lactose. This is the result of the operation of a second pathway for d-galactose catabolism, which involves galactitol as an intermediate, and whose transient concentration is strongly enhanced in the delta-gal1 strain. In this pathway, galactitol is catabolised by the lad1-encoded l-arabinitol-4-dehydrogenase, because a gal1/lad1 double delta-mutant failed to grow on d-galactose. In the delta-gal1 strain, induction of the Leloir pathway gene gal7 (encoding galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase) by d-galactose, but not by l-arabinose, is impaired. Induction of cellulase gene expression by lactose is also impaired in a gal1 deleted strain, whereas their induction by sophorose (the putative cellulose-derived inducer) was shown to be normal, thus demonstrating that galactokinase is a key enzyme for cellulase induction during growth on lactose, and that induction by lactose and sophorose involves different mechanisms. 
10338111	19990525	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 	The non-enzymatic microbicidal activity of lysozymes.	T4 lysozyme was thought to destroy bacteria by its muramidase activity. However, we demonstrate here that amphipathic helix stretches in the C-terminus of T4 lysozyme mediate its bactericidal and fungistatic activities. In heat-denatured T4 lysozyme, the enzymatic activity is completely abolished but unexpectedly, the antimicrobial functions remain preserved. Small synthetic peptides corresponding to amphipathic C-terminal domains of T4 lysozyme show a microbicidal activity. Its membrane disturbing activity was directly demonstrated for bacterial, fungal and plant cells but not in a hemolysis assay. Comparable results were obtained with hen egg white lysozyme. This opens up many new opportunities for optimization of lysozymes as antimicrobial agents in various applications by protein engineering. 
15246660	20040713	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Expression of fungal pectin methylesterase in transgenic tobacco leads to alteration in cell wall metabolism and a dwarf phenotype.	A transgenic tobacco plant (Nicotiana tabacum L.) expressing a fungal pectin methylesterase (PME; EC 3.1.1.11) gene derived from a black filamentous fungus, Aspergillus niger was created. Fungal PME should have a wider range of adaptability to substrate pectin compared with plant PME. As expected, the proportion of methyl esters in pectin was reduced in the transgenic tobacco. Consequently, the transgenic plant showed short internodes, small leaves and a dwarf phenotype. At a cellular level, the longitudinal lengths of stem epidermal cells were shorter than those of control plants. This is the first report that fungal PME promotes dwarfism in plants. It is worth noting that in the PME-expressing dwarf plant, the expression levels of cell wall metabolism related genes that included endo-1,4-beta-glucanase, cellulose synthase, endo-xyloglucan transferase and expansin gene were decreased. These results suggest that the expression of fungal PME in plants affects the cell wall metabolism. 
23931690	20130813	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Simultaneous production of cellulase and reducing sugar through modification of compositional and structural characteristic of sugarcane bagasse.	This study examined the potential of untreated and alkali-pretreated sugarcane bagasse (SCB) in cellulase, reducing sugar (RS) and fungal biomass production via solid state fermentation (SSF) using Pycnoporus sanguineus. The impact of the composition, structure and cellulase adsorption ability of SCB on the production of cellulase, RS and fungal biomass was investigated. From the morphological and compositional analyses, untreated SCB has relatively more structural changes with a higher percentage of depolymerisation on the cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin content compared to alkali-pretreated SCB. Thus, untreated SCB favoured the production of cellulase and fungal biomass whereas alkali-pretreated SCB yielded a higher amount of RS. The composition and morphology of untreated SCB did not encourage RS production and this suggested that RS produced during SSF might be consumed in a faster rate by the more abundantly grown fungus. Besides that, alkali-pretreated SCB with higher cellulase adsorption ability could have adsorbed the cellulase produced and resulted in a lower cellulase titre. In short, the production of specific bioproducts via SSF is dependent on the structure and composition of the substrate applied. 
22118579	20111129	Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Primary roles of two dehydrogenases in the mannitol metabolism and multi-stress tolerance of entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana.	Knockout and complement mutants of mannitol-1-phosphate dehydrogenase (MPD) and mannitol dehydrogenase (MTD) were constructed to probe the roles of both enzymes in the mannitol metabolism and multi-stress tolerances of entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana. Compared with wild-type and complement mutants, ΔBbMPD lost 99.5% MPD activity for reducing fructose-6-phosphate to mannitol-1-phosphate while ΔBbMTD lost 78.9% MTD activity for oxidizing mannitol to fructose. Consequently, mannitol contents in mycelia and conidia decreased 68% and 83% for ΔBbMPD, and 16% and 38% for ΔBbMTD, accompanied by greatly enhanced trehalose accumulations due to 81-87% decrease in their neutral trehalase expression. Mannitol as mere carbon source in a nitrate-based minimal medium suppressed the colony growth of ΔBbMTD instead of ΔBbMPD, and delayed more conidial germination of ΔBbMTD than ΔBbMPD. Based on median lethal responses, conidial tolerances to H(2) O(2) oxidation, UV-B irradiation and heat stress at 45°C decreased 38%, 39% and 22% in ΔBbMPD, and 18%, 16% and 11% in ΔBbMTD respectively. Moreover, ΔBbMPD and ΔBbMTD lost 14% and 7% of their virulence against Spodoptera litura larvae respectively. Our findings highlight the primary roles of MPD and MTD in mannitol metabolism and their significant contributions to multi-stress tolerances and virulence influential on the biocontrol potential of B.bassiana. 
21601645	20110524	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Phr1p, a glycosylphosphatidylinsitol-anchored β(1,3)-glucanosyltransferase critical for hyphal wall formation, localizes to the apical growth sites and septa in Candida albicans.	Cell wall biogenesis is a dynamic process relying on the coordinated activity of several extracellular enzymes. PHR1 is a pH-regulated gene of Candida albicans encoding a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored β(1,3)-glucanosyltransferase of family GH72 which acts as a cell wall remodelling enzyme and is crucial for morphogenesis and virulence. In order to explore the function of Phr1p, we obtained a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion to determine its localization. During induction of vegetative growth, Phr1p-GFP was concentrated in the plasma membrane of the growing bud, in the mother-bud neck, and in the septum. Phr1p-GFP was recovered in the detergent-resistant membranes indicating its association with the lipid rafts as the wild type Phr1p. Upon induction of hyphal growth, Phr1p-GFP highly concentrated at the apex of the germ tubes and progressively distributed along the lateral sides of the hyphae. Phr1p-GFP also labelled the hyphal septa, where it colocalized with chitin. Localization to the hyphal septa was perturbed in nocodazole-treated cells, whereas inhibition of actin polymerization hindered the apical localization. Electron Microscopy analysis of the hyphal wall ultrastructure of a PHR1 null mutant showed loss of compactness and irregular organization of the surface layer. These observations indicate that Phr1p plays a crucial role in hyphal wall formation, a highly regulated process on which morphogenesis and virulence rely. 
21870122	20110827	Mycopathologia	D016428 D013485 	Identification of fibrinogen-binding proteins of Aspergillus fumigatus using proteomic approach.	Aspergillus fumigatus, the main etiological agent for various forms of human aspergillosis, gets access to the respiratory system of human host by inhalation of airborne conidia. These conidia possibly adhere to extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Among the ECM proteins involved in adherence, fibrinogen is thought to be crucial. Here, we studied whether A. fumigatus three-week culture filtrate (3wcf) proteins promote binding of A. fumigatus to ECM proteins and promote fungal growth. We observed that incubation of ECM with 3wcf proteins led to dose- and time-dependent increase in adherence of conidia to the ECM. In order to identify the catalogue of fibrinogen-binding A. fumigatus proteins, we carried out fibrinogen affinity blotting using two-dimensional gel electrophoresed 3wcf proteins. A total of 15 fibrinogen-binding protein spots corresponding to 7 unique proteins were identified in 3wcf using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF-TOF). Among these, 4 proteins, namely, beta-glucosidase, alpha-mannosidase, pectate lyase A and oryzin precursor were predicted to have cell wall or extracellular localization, whereas amidase family protein and two hypothetical proteins did not display the signal sequence. This study reports seven novel fibrinogen-binding proteins of A. fumigatus, some of which could be further explored for targeting the adhesion phenomenon as antifungal strategy. 
12324364	20020927	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Direct and efficient production of ethanol from cellulosic material with a yeast strain displaying cellulolytic enzymes.	For direct and efficient ethanol production from cellulosic materials, we constructed a novel cellulose-degrading yeast strain by genetically codisplaying two cellulolytic enzymes on the cell surface of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. By using a cell surface engineering system based on alpha-agglutinin, endoglucanase II (EGII) from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei QM9414 was displayed on the cell surface as a fusion protein containing an RGSHis6 (Arg-Gly-Ser-His(6)) peptide tag in the N-terminal region. EGII activity was detected in the cell pellet fraction but not in the culture supernatant. Localization of the RGSHis6-EGII-alpha-agglutinin fusion protein on the cell surface was confirmed by immunofluorescence microscopy. The yeast strain displaying EGII showed significantly elevated hydrolytic activity toward barley beta-glucan, a linear polysaccharide composed of an average of 1,200 glucose residues. In a further step, EGII and beta-glucosidase 1 from Aspergillus aculeatus No. F-50 were codisplayed on the cell surface. The resulting yeast cells could grow in synthetic medium containing beta-glucan as the sole carbon source and could directly ferment 45 g of beta-glucan per liter to produce 16.5 g of ethanol per liter within about 50 h. The yield in terms of grams of ethanol produced per gram of carbohydrate utilized was 0.48 g/g, which corresponds to 93.3% of the theoretical yield. This result indicates that efficient simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of cellulose to ethanol are carried out by a recombinant yeast cells displaying cellulolytic enzymes. 
20080727	20100119	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	Engineering the cell wall by reducing de-methyl-esterified homogalacturonan improves saccharification of plant tissues for bioconversion.	Plant cell walls represent an abundant, renewable source of biofuel and other useful products. The major bottleneck for the industrial scale-up of their conversion to simple sugars (saccharification), to be subsequently converted by microorganisms into ethanol or other products, is their recalcitrance to enzymatic saccharification. We investigated whether the structure of pectin that embeds the cellulose-hemicellulose network affects the exposure of cellulose to enzymes and consequently the process of saccharification. Reduction of de-methyl-esterified homogalacturonan (HGA) in Arabidopsis plants through the expression of a fungal polygalacturonase (PG) or an inhibitor of pectin methylesterase (PMEI) increased the efficiency of enzymatic saccharification. The improved enzymatic saccharification efficiency observed in transformed plants could also reduce the need for acid pretreatment. Similar results were obtained in PG-expressing tobacco plants and in PMEI-expressing wheat plants, indicating that reduction of de-methyl-esterified HGA may be used in crop species to facilitate the process of biomass saccharification. 
2548076	19890601	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 	GPA1Val-50 mutation in the mating-factor signaling pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The GPA1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a protein that is highly homologous to the alpha subunit of mammalian hetrotrimeric G proteins and is essential for haploid cell growth. A mutation of the GPA1 protein, GPA1Val-50, in which Gly-50 was replaced by valine, could complement the growth defect of a GPA1 disruption, gpal::HIS3. However, cells with gpa1::HIS3 expressing the GPA1Val-50 protein were supersensitive to alpha-factor in a short-term incubation but resumed growth after long-term incubation even after exposure to high concentrations of alpha-factor. The former phenotype associated with GPA1Val-50 is recessive, and the latter phenotype is dominant to GPA1+. The supersensitivity of GPA1Val-50 to alpha-factor was dependent on STE2 and STE4, which demonstrates that this GPA1Val-50-produced phenotype requires the mating-factor receptor and the beta subunit of the G protein. The double mutant of sst2-1 GPA1Val-50 recovered from division arrest, which suggested that SST2 is not required for recovery of the GPA1Val-50 mutant. 
21441342	20110329	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Transcriptomic responses of the softwood-degrading white-rot fungus Phanerochaete carnosa during growth on coniferous and deciduous wood.	To identify enzymes that could be developed to reduce the recalcitrance of softwood resources, the transcriptomes of the softwood-degrading white-rot fungus Phanerochaete carnosa were evaluated after growth on lodgepole pine, white spruce, balsam fir, and sugar maple and compared to the transcriptome of P. carnosa after growth on liquid nutrient medium. One hundred fifty-two million paired-end reads were obtained, and 63% of these reads were mapped to 10,257 gene models from P. carnosa. Five-hundred thirty-three of these genes had transcripts that were at least four times more abundant during growth on at least one wood medium than on nutrient medium. The 30 transcripts that were on average over 100 times more abundant during growth on wood than on nutrient medium included 6 manganese peroxidases, 5 cellulases, 2 hemicellulases, a lignin peroxidase, glyoxal oxidase, and a P450 monooxygenase. Notably, among the genes encoding putative cellulases, one encoding a glycosyl hydrolase family 61 protein had the highest relative transcript abundance during growth on wood. Overall, transcripts predicted to encode lignin-degrading activities were more abundant than those predicted to encode carbohydrate-active enzymes. Transcripts predicted to encode three MnPs represented the most highly abundant transcripts in wood-grown cultivations compared to nutrient medium cultivations. Gene set enrichment analyses did not distinguish transcriptomes resulting from softwood and hardwood cultivations, suggesting that similar sets of enzyme activities are elicited by P. carnosa grown on different wood substrates, albeit to different expression levels. 
21029756	20101030	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Action of xylan deacetylating enzymes on monoacetyl derivatives of 4-nitrophenyl glycosides of β-D-xylopyranose and α-L-arabinofuranose.	Measurements of esterase activity by enzyme-coupled assays on monoacetates of 4-nitrophenyl β-D-xylopyranoside and 4-nitrophenyl α-L-arabinofuranoside showed that acetylxylan esterases of families 1, 4 and 5 produced by Trichoderma reesei and Penicillium purpurogenum have a strong preference for deacetylation of position 2 in xylopyranosides. The acetylxylan esterases exhibit only weak activity on acetylated arabinofuranosides, with 2-acetate as the best substrate. Acetyl esterases of family 16 produced by the same two fungi deacetylate in xylopyranosides preferentially positions 3 and 4. Their specific activity on arabinofuranosides is also much lower than on xylopyranosides, however, substantially greater than that in the case of typical acetylxylan esterases. 
15978991	20050628	Bioresour._Technol.	D003160 D016428 	Chemical and biological changes during composting of different organic wastes and assessment of compost maturity.	Changes in organic C, total N, C:N ratio, activities of cellulase, xylanase and protease, and microbial population were determined during composting of different organic wastes such as mixture of sugarcane trash and cattle dung, press mud, poultry waste and water hyacinth biomass. There were losses of N in poultry waste and water hyacinth with the effect an initial increase in C:N ratio was observed which decreased later on due to decomposition. The activities of cellulase, xylanase and protease were maximum between 30 and 60 days of composting in various wastes. Similar trend was observed with respect to mesophilic bacterial and fungal population. Various quality parameters like C:N ratio, water soluble C (WSC), CO(2) evolution and level of humic substances were compared after 90 day composting. There was statistically significant correlation between C:N ratio and CO(2) evolution, WSC and humic substances. Significant correlation between CO(2) evolved and level of humic substances was also observed. The study shows that no single parameter can be taken as an index of compost maturity. However, C:N ratio and CO(2) evolved from finished compost can be taken as the most reliable indices of compost maturity. 
10920687	20000802	Ryumachi	D002363 D004740 D016428 	[A case of Sjögren's syndrome and systemic sclerosis complicated with acute pancreatitis].	We report a case of Sjögren's syndrome (SS) and systemic sclerosis (SSc) complicated with acute pancreatitis. A 51-year-old woman had been diagnosed as SS in 1973. She noticed Raynaud's phenomenon in 1977. In 1988, interstitial pneumonia (IP) was pointed out and she was treated with methylprednisolone (mPSL) pulse therapy. Prednisolone (PSL) was gradually tapered to 3-5 mg daily and she visited our outpatient clinic in 1995. On her first admission to our hospital in 1996, she showed xerostomia, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, sclerotic skin changes of her distal extremities and face, thickening of her sublinguinal frenulum, and regurgitative esophagitis. She was positive with anti-SS-A and SS-B antibodies. She was diagnosed as SS and SSc. Radiographic and laboratory data also established the diagnosis of inactive IP, renal tubular acidosis (RTA) and chronic renal failure (CRF). In April 30th 1997, she was admitted to our hospital again with complaints of dyspnea, dysesthesia, epigastralgia and petechia. Active IP and mononeuritis multiplex were diagnosed, and petechia was considered to be associated with vasculopathy. Her serum amylase level was 891 mU/ml on admission and spontaneously increased to 2440 mU/ml on May 12th along with increase of fibrinogen degradation product, D-dimer and alpha 2 plasmin-plasmin inhibitor complex levels. Ultrasonography depicted swelling of her pancreatic head and the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis was made. She was treated with protease inhibitors and intravenous hyperalimentation for acute pancreatitis. mPSL pulse therapy (500 mg/day for 3 days) was instituted for IP and mononeuritis multiplex on May 22, followed by 50 mg of daily PSL. While IP and mononeuritis multiplex gradually improved by the high-dose steroid therapy, serum amylase level raised to more than 4293 mU/ml, suggesting the modification of pancreatitis by the treatment with steroid. Since she did not respond to the conservative therapy for acute pancreatitis, she was treated with plasmapheresis, which turned out to be very effective. However, she was suffered from fungal pneumonia and died of respiratory failure. As far as we know, only three cases of SS with acute pancreatitis have been reported so far. The immunopathological mechanisms of development of acute pancreatitis in our case, especially focusing on the significance of microvasculopathy and hypercoagulability, were discussed. 
11777578	20020105	J._Microbiol._Methods	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Rapid detection of lytic antimicrobial activity against yeast and filamentous fungi.	A rapid method for assessing the lytic activity of antimicrobial agents against yeast and fungi has been developed. The assay is based on the release of the intracellular enzyme, maltase (alpha-glucosidase). The released maltase activity was measured colorimetrically by the production of p-nitrophenol from p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-glucopyranoside (PNPG). The lytic activity of different antimicrobial compounds was measured against yeast cells or germinating spores of filamentous fungi. Lytic anti-yeast activity could be detected within 20 min incubation at 30 degrees C against Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, and Cryptococcus neoformans. Lytic anti-fungal activity appeared after 2 h of incubation at 30 degrees C against germinating spores of Aspergillus niger and Botrytis cinerea. Whole cells of either yeast or fungi did not hydrolyze sufficient PNPG within 3 h at 30 degrees C to yield a detectable color change. Lytic activity of enzymes (e.g., Lyticase), antibiotics (e.g., Amphotericin B), and an antibiotic-producing strain of bacteria were detected using the assay. The anti-yeast assay has been adapted to a 96-well microtiter format. Both assays provided a rapid, sensitive, and reproducible detection of lytic anti-yeast and anti-fungal activity. 
22950684	20120907	Langmuir	D016428 D013485 	Adsorption characteristics of fungal family 1 cellulose-binding domain from Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I on crystalline cellulose: negative cooperative adsorption via a steric exclusion effect.	Cellobiohydrolases (CBHs) hydrolyzing crystalline cellulose share a two-domain structure of catalytic domain (CD) and cellulose-binding domain (CBD). To focus on the binding characteristics of CBD, we analyzed the adsorption of fusion protein of fungal family 1 CBD from  Trichoderma reesei  CBH I and red-fluorescent protein on crystalline and amorphous celluloses. Binding data were better fitted by Hill's model with negative cooperativity than by other adsorption models, suggesting the occurrence of a steric exclusion effect among the fusion molecules on the cellulose surfaces. The degree of negative cooperativity depended on the nature of the cellulose. The significance of this phenomenon for catalysis by intact CBHI is discussed. 
17979231	20071106	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Hypotin, a novel antipathogenic and antiproliferative protein from peanuts with a sequence similar to those of chitinase precursors.	A protein designated Hypotin, with both antifungal and antibacterial activity, was isolated from peanut (Arachis hypogaea) seeds. The isolation procedure included extraction, ammonium sulfate precipitation, affinity chromatography on Affi-gel blue gel, ion chromatography, and gel filtration. The protein exhibited a molecular mass of 30.4 kDa in SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under both reducing and nonreducing conditions, indicating that it is a monomeric protein. Its N-terminal sequence was highly homologous to those of chitinases and chitinase precursors from plants. It exerted potent antifungal action toward a variety of fungal species, including Pythium aphanidermatum, Fusarium solani, Physalospora piricola, Alternaria alternata, Botrytis cinerea, and Fusarium oxysporum. In addition, this novel protein exhibited antiproliferative activity against tumor cells. These findings further the progress in the research of leguminous plants. 
21369980	20110304	J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Organic acids associated with saccharification of cellulosic wastes during solid-state fermentation.	Saccharification of five cellulosic wastes, i.e. rice husks, wheat bran, corn cobs, wheat straw and rice straw by three cellulytic fungi, i.e. Aspergillus glaums MN1, Aspergillus oryzae MN2 and Penicillium purpurogenum MN3, during solid-state fermentation (SSF) was laboratory studied. Rice husks, wheat bran, and corn cobs were selected as inducers of glucose production in the tested fungi. An incubation interval of 10 days was optimal for glucose production. Maximal activities of the cellulases FP-ase, CMC-ase, and p-glucosidase were detected during SSF of rice husks by P. purpurogenum; however, a-amylase activity (7.2 U/g) was comparatively reduced. Meanwhile, the productivities of FP-ase, CMC-ase, and β-glucosidase were high during SSF of rice husks by A glaucus; however, they decreased during SSF of corn cobs by P. purpurogenum. Addition of rock phosphate (RP) (75 mg P(2)O(5)) decreased the pH of SSF media. (NH(4))(2)SO(4) was found to be less inducer of cellulytic enzymes, during SSF of rice husks by A. glaucus or A. oryzae; it also induced phytase production and solubilization of RP. The organic acids associated with saccharification of the wastes studied have also been investigated. The highest concentration of levulinic acid was detected (46.15 mg/g) during SSF of corn cobs by P. purpurogenum. Likewise, oxalic acid concentration was 43.20 mg/g during SSF of rice husks by P. purpurogenum. 
23353800	20130129	Cryobiology	D016428 D013485 	Taxonomic characterization, adaptation strategies and biotechnological potential of cryophilic yeasts from ice cores of Midre Lovénbreen glacier, Svalbard, Arctic.	Ten strains of cryophilic yeast were studied from glacier ice cores of Svalbard, Arctic. The ice melt samples contained about 3×10(3) - 1×10(4) colony forming unit (CFUs) per ml. Sequence analysis of the isolates, using D1/D2 domain identified five species of yeasts: Cryptococcus adeliensis (MLB-18 JX192655), Cryptococcus albidosimilis (MLB-19 JX192656), Cryptococcus saitoi (MLB-22 JX192659), Rhodosporidium lusitaniae (MLB-20 JX192657), and Rhodotorula mucilaginosa (MLB-27 JX192664). Effect of temperature on growth of these isolates was studied. The strains are able to grow at temperatures ranging between 1 and 20°C. Screening of the cultures for amylase, cellulase, protease, lipase, urease and catalase activity were carried out indicating varying amounts of enzyme production at different temperatures. Characterization of lipase in strain Cryptococcus sp. MLB-24 was performed. Fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) analysis of the cultures grown at four different temperatures (1, 4, 15, and 20°C) was also done. Decrease in temperature was reported to cause increase in concentration of unsaturated fatty acids. High amount of oleic acid accumulated with increase in temperature. These fatty acids possibly help the strains to survive in glacial ice core cold environment. The extracellular and intracellular filtrate of the cultures showed negative antifreeze protein (AFP) activity. The observations indicate that probably the isolates in the present undertaking adapt to low temperatures, by enzyme and PUFA secretion rather than by antifreeze protein secretion. 
15453678	20040930	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Production of bioavailable flavonoid glucosides in fruit juices and green tea by use of fungal alpha-L-rhamnosidases.	Flavonoid glucosides have been reported to be more bioavailable than their rutinoside counterparts. The aim of this study is to describe a first step in the use of alpha-L-rhamnosidases (RhaA and RhaB) from Aspergillus aculeatus as a way to produce functional beverages based on their potentially increased flavonoid bioavailability. Blackcurrant juice (BCJ), orange juice (OJ), and green tea infusion (GT) were incubated with either RhaA or RhaB at 30 degrees C for 10 h. Aliquots of controls and enzyme-treated samples were taken at different time points and analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography-photodiode-array detector-mass spectrometry of daughter fragments (HPLC-DAD-MS-MS). Both RhaA and RhaB selectively catalyze in situ the removal of terminal rhamnosyl groups in the three beverages despite the heterogeneity of assay conditions such as different rutinosides and pH. Incubation of the three beverages with the two rhamnosidases resulted in a hyperbolic decrease in the flavonoid rutinosides (anthocyanins in BCJ, flavanones in OJ, and flavonols in GT) and a concomitant increase in their flavonoid glucoside counterparts. The time required for conversion of 50% of the rutinoside into the corresponding flavonoid glucoside ranged from 30 min (RhaB-rutin in GT) to 6 h (RhaB-delphinidin 3-rutinoside in BCJ). The results presented in this paper are a step forward in the use of enzyme-treated beverages as a source of bioavailable flavonoid glucosides. 
16887562	19970201	Anaerobe	D016428 	Dilution rate increases production of plant cell-wall degrading enzymes by anaerobic fungi in continuous-flow culture.	The gut anaerobic fungi,Neocallimastix hurleyensis and aOrpinomyces sp., were grown in 100 mL batch and continuous-flow cultures on wheat straw at a concentration of 80 g dry matter/L of culture liquid. In batch cultures,N. hurleyensis and Orpinomyces sp. degraded only ca. 9% and 5% of the wheat straw, respectively. In continuous-flow cultures, however, the two fungi degraded 52-56% of the apparent dry matter of wheat straw. Both fungi were able to produce greater quantities (up to x 30) of cell-wall degrading enzymes (CMCase, xylanase, beta-glucosidase and beta-xylosidase) in continuous-flow cultures than in the corresponding batch cultures. Increasing the dilution rate in continuous-flow culture resulted in the production of increased enzyme activity for all the measured cell-wall degrading enzymes, with proportional relationships between dilution rate and the cumulative activities of beta-glucosidase and beta-xylosidase. Dilution rates, however, had no consistent effect on the cumulative production of the fermentation end-products, acetate, formate, D- and L-lactate from both fungi. In addition to acetate and formate,N. hurleyens is produced D- and L-lactate in both batch and continuous-flow cultures, whereas only trace amounts of L-lactate were detected in the Orpinomyces sp. cultures. 
9451025	19980314	Glycobiology	D016428 D013485 	Genetic tailoring of N-linked oligosaccharides: the role of glucose residues in glycoprotein processing of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in vivo.	In higher eukaryotes a quality control system monitoring the folding state of glycoproteins is located in the ER and is composed of the proteins calnexin, calreticulin, glucosidase II, and UDP-glucose: glycoprotein glucosyltransferase. It is believed that the innermost glucose residue of the N- linked oligosaccharide of a glycoprotein serves as a tag in this control system and therefore performs an important function in the protein folding pathway. To address this function, we constructed Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains which contain nonglucosylated (G0), monoglucosylated (G1), or diglucosylated (G2) glycoproteins in the ER and used these strains to study the role of glucose residues in the ER processing of glycoproteins. These alterations of the oligosaccharide structure did not result in a growth phenotype, but the induction of the unfolded protein response upon treatment with DTT was much higher in G0 and G2 strains as compared to wild-type and G1 strains. Our results provide in vivo evidence that the G1 oligosaccharide is an active oligosaccharide structure in the ER glycoprotein processing pathway of S.cerevisiae. Furthermore, by analyzing N- linked oligosaccharides of the constructed strains we can directly show that no general glycoprotein glucosyltransferase exists in S. cerevisiae. 
8034739	19940701	J._Cell_Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Clathrin heavy chain functions in sorting and secretion of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum.	The clathrin heavy chain is a major component of clathrin-coated vesicles that function in selective membrane traffic in eukaryotic cells. We disrupted the clathrin heavy chain gene (chcA) in Dictyostelium discoideum to generate a stable clathrin heavy chain-deficient cell line. Measurement of pinocytosis in the clathrin-minus mutant revealed a four-to five-fold deficiency in the internalization of fluid-phase markers. Once internalized, these markers recycled to the cell surface of mutant cells at wild-type rates. We also explored the involvement of clathrin heavy chain in the trafficking of lysosomal enzymes. Pulse chase analysis revealed that clathrin-minus cells processed most alpha-mannosidase to mature forms, however, approximately 20-25% of the precursor molecules remained uncleaved, were missorted, and were rapidly secreted by the constitutive secretory pathway. The remaining intracellular alpha-mannosidase was successfully targeted to mature lysosomes. Standard secretion assays showed that the rate of secretion of alpha-mannosidase was significantly less in clathrin-minus cells compared to control cells in growth medium. Interestingly, the secretion rates of another lysosomal enzyme, acid phosphatase, were similar in clathrin-minus and wild-type cells. Like wild-type cells, clathrin-minus mutants responded to starvation conditions with increased lysosomal enzyme secretion. Our study of the mutant cells provide in vivo evidence for roles for the clathrin heavy chain in (a) the internalization of fluid from the plasma membrane; (b) sorting of hydrolase precursors from the constitutive secretory pathway to the lysosomal pathway; and (c) secretion of mature hydrolases from lysosomes to the extracellular space. 
1225521	19751115	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Extracellular enzyme system utilized by the fungus Sporotrichum pulverulentum (Chrysosporium lignorum) for the breakdown of cullulose.  Functional characterization of five endo-1,4-beta-glucanases and one exo-1,4-beta-glucanase.	A strong synergistic response was observed between the five endo-1,4-beta-glucanases and the exo-1,4-beta-glucanase obtained from culture solutions of the rot fungus Sporotrichum pulverulentum (formerly called Chrysosporium lignorum), when these enzymes were allowed to degrade de-waxed cotton and Avicel.  No synergism was observed if Walseth cellulose, an acid-swollen cullulose, was used.  If de-waxed cotton was pretreated with endo-1,4-beta-glucanases, the exo-1,4-beta-glucanase enzyme released much more degradation products than from an untreated cotton... 
21914823	20110915	Mycologia	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Amanita thiersii is a saprotrophic fungus expanding its range in the United States.	Although most species in the genus Amanita form ectomycorrhizal associations, a few are reported to be saprotrophs living in grassland habitats. Little is known about the ecology and distribution of these free-living Amanita species. We describe the ecology of Amanita thiersii, a species commonly collected in lawns throughout the Mississippi River Basin. Stable isotopes of carbon, transcriptomic sequences and patterns of growth on complex carbon sources provide evidence for A. thiersii as a saprotrophic species. Sporocarps of A. thiersii are less depleted in (13)C compared to published data for ectomycorrhizal fungi, supporting a saprotrophic mode of carbon acquisition in the field. Orthologs of cellulase genes known to play key roles in the decomposition of cellulose in other basidiomycetes were identified in a transcriptome of A. thiersii, establishing that this species has the genetic potential to degrade cellulose. Amanita thiersii also can use artificial cellulose or sterile grass litter as a sole carbon source. DNA sequences of three nuclear gene regions and banding patterns from four inter-simple sequence repeat markers were identical across 31 populations from throughout the known range of the species, which suggests the genetic diversity of A. thiersii populations is low. Maps of A. thiersii collections made from the 1950s until present suggest this species is experiencing a range expansion. It was reported first in 1952 in Texas and now occurs in nine states north to Illinois. These data provide an ecological context for interpreting the genome of A. thiersii, currently being sequenced at the United States Department of Energy's Joint Genome Institute. 
24425022	20140116	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Isolation of mutants of Aspergillus awamori with enhanced production of extracellular xylanase and β-xylosidase.	Plate screening tests were designed for the selection and isolation of mutant strains of the fungus Aspergillus awamori CMI 142717 showing over-production and constitutive synthesis of xylanase and β-xylosidase. Following mutation by N-methyl-N-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, nitrous acid and UV (254 nm), two generations of mutants were isolated and cultured in shake fiasks containing glucose, ball-milled oat straw or oat speit xylan as carbon source. Growth of a number of selected mutants in shake flask culture on medium containing oat spelt xylan produced the highest titres of xylanase and β-xylosidase. Thus, xylanase producton by mutant AANTG43 was 132 U/ml when the Somogyl-Nelson (alkaline copper) method of measuring reducing sugar released was used, or 1160 U/ml using the dinitrosalicylic acid method of reducing sugar analysis. These values were 8-fold higher than those produced by the wild type. A 20-fold improvement in β-xylosidase production was produced by mutant AANO19 (3.51 U/ml). The titres for these two enzyme activities are the highest recorded so far in the literature. Mutant AANTG43 also produced high levels of xylanase (49.8 U/ml) in submerged culture in a fermenter and showed a substantial improvement in the overall productivity of enzyme compared to the wild type strain.  
11739770	20011212	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 	Transcriptional regulation of 3,4-dihydroxy-2-butanone 4-phosphate synthase.	The filamentous hemiascomycete Ashbya gossypii is a strong riboflavin overproducer. A striking but as yet uninvestigated phenomenon is the fact that the overproduction of this vitamin starts when growth rate declines, which means that most of the riboflavin is produced in the stationary phase, the so-called production phase. The specific activity of 3,4-dihydroxy-2-butanone 4-phosphate (DHBP) synthase, the first enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway for riboflavin, was determined during cultivation and an increase during the production phase was found. Furthermore, an increase of RIB3 mRNA, encoding DHBP synthase, was observed by competitive RT-PCR in the production phase. The mRNAs of two housekeeping genes, ACT1 (encoding actin) and TEF (encoding translation elongation factor-1 alpha), served as standards in the RT-PCR. Reporter studies with a RIB3 promoter-lacZ fusion showed an increase of beta-galactosidase specific activity in the production phase. This investigation verified that the increase of RIB3 mRNA in the production phase is caused by an induction of promoter activity. These data suggest that the time course of riboflavin overproduction of A. gossypii is correlated with a transcriptional regulation of the DHBP synthase. 
9245826	19970701	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Protein kinase Sck1 is involved in trehalase activation by glucose and nitrogen source in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Trehalase activity is markedly enhanced upon addition of glucose and a nitrogen source to cells of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. This increase corresponds to a post-translational activation of the enzyme, which is controlled by cAMP-dependent and cAMP-independent pathways. Recent work has shown that overexpression of SCK1 in Schiz. pombe is able to suppress mutations that result in reduced Pka1 (cAMP-dependent protein kinase A activity, suggesting that Sck1 (suppressor of loss of cAMP-dependent protein kinase) might be a functional analogue of Pka1 in the fission yeast. Here, an analysis of the possible role of Sck1 in the activation of trehalase triggered by glucose and a nitrogen source is reported in cells that were deficient in either Pka1, Sck1 or both protein kinases. The results showed that, except in repressed cells, Sck1 probably mediates a cAMP-independent activation of trehalase following the signal(s) triggered by glucose and the nitrogen source. The absence of functional Sck1 in depressed cells renders trehalase insensitive to activation by glucose and the nitrogen source even in the presence of Pka1, indicating that the Sck1-dependent, cAMP-independent pathway is the main signalling pathway controlling trehalase activation under derepression conditions. It is proposed that, during the activation of trehalase induced by glucose or a nitrogen source, the cAMP-Pka1 activation pathway previously characterized is to some extent parallel to this newly described one which includes Sck1 as phosphorylating enzyme. Neither of these two pathways, however, plays a key role in the heat-induced increase in trehalase activity. 
16408174	20060113	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Cellulase production by Penicillium echinulatum on lactose.	The inducer effect of lactose on cellulase activity in Penicillium echinulatum 9A02S1 was studied. Submerged cultivation was performed using different concentrations of lactose and cellulose, in which the pH, mycelial mass, soluble proteins, filter paper activity (FPA), and activity of beta-glucosidases were measured. The cultures containing lactose only presented low FPAs (0.1 FPU/ml). The cultures with associated cellulose and lactose and those containing cellulose only presented similar enzymatic activities (1.5 FPU/ml), suggesting the possibility of up to 75% reduction in the cellulose concentration. In relation to the beta-glucosidases, increasing the lactose/cellulose ratio results in a proportional increase of enzymatic activity. In the cultures using both inducers, there is a longer duration of the acid phase in relation to treatments using only cellulose or lactose, indicating diauxia and catabolic repression. 
20068354	20100114	J._Mol._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Discoidin domain of chitosanase is required for binding to the fungal cell wall.	Previously, we reported properties of a glycosylase belonging to GH-8 glycosyl hydrolase (GH) and having both chitosanase and glucanase activities. This enzyme (D2), whose molecular mass (86 kDa) was the largest among the GH-8 group, has its catalytic domain at the N-terminal region, and discoidin domain (DD) at the C-terminal region. Although various chitosanases, chitinases and glucanases have been known, DD is unique to the D2 enzyme. Glucanase and chitinase, but not chitosanase, are known to have functional domain such as carbohydrate-binding module, besides catalytic domain. Accordingly, function of the DD of D2 chitosanase was analyzed, using zygomycete cell wall containing chitosan, glucan and chitin as the basic constituents. The DD specifically and tightly bound to chitosan, but did not participate in affinity for glucan and chitin. Deletion of the DD caused marked reduction in absorbability to cell wall and in hydrolytic activity toward chitosan and glucan. These results suggest that the DD is concerned in binding of the enzyme to cell wall and in effective digestion of the insoluble substrate, through hydrolysis of not only chitosan but also coexisting glucan. Thus, this is the first example of chitosan-binding domain among various carbohydrate-binding modules reported thus far. 
19148633	20090117	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Improving the thermostability and activity of Melanocarpus albomyces cellobiohydrolase Cel7B.	Two different types of approach were taken to improve the hydrolytic activity towards crystalline cellulose at elevated temperatures of Melanocarpus albomyces Cel7B (Ma Cel7B), a single-module GH-7 family cellobiohydrolase. Structure-guided protein engineering was used to introduce an additional tenth disulphide bridge to the Ma Cel7B catalytic module. In addition, a fusion protein was constructed by linking a cellulose-binding module (CBM) and a linker from the Trichoderma reesei Cel7A to the C terminus of Ma Cel7B. Both approaches proved successful. The disulphide bridge mutation G4C/M70C located near the N terminus, close to the entrance of the active site tunnel of Ma Cel7B, led to improved thermostability (DeltaT (m) = 2.5 degrees C). By adding the earlier found thermostability-increasing mutation S290T (DeltaT (m) = 1.5 degrees C) together with the disulphide bridge mutation, the unfolding temperature was increased by 4 degrees C (mutant G4C/M70C/S290T) compared to that of the wild-type enzyme, thus showing an additive effect on thermostability. Both disulphide mutants had increased activity towards microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel) at 75 degrees C, apparently solely because of their improved thermostability. The addition of a CBM also improved the thermostability (DeltaT (m) = 2.5 degrees C) and caused a clear (sevenfold) increase in the hydrolysis activity of Ma Cel7B towards Avicel at 70 degrees C. 
21674664	20110616	Protein_Sci.	D016428 	Comparative functional analysis of the human macrophage chitotriosidase.	This work analyses the chitin-binding and catalytic domains of the human macrophage chitotriosidase and investigates the physiological role of this glycoside hydrolase in a complex mechanism such as the innate immune system, especially its antifungal activity. Accordingly, we first analyzed the ability of its chitin-binding domain to interact with chitin embedded in fungal cell walls using the β-lactamase activity reporter system described in our previous work. The data showed that the chitin-binding activity was related to the cell wall composition of the fungi strains and that their peptide-N-glycosidase/zymolyase treatments increased binding to fungal by increasing protein permeability. We also investigated the antifungal activity of the enzyme against Candida albicans. The antifungal properties of the complete chitotriosidase were analyzed and compared with those of the isolated chitin-binding and catalytic domains. The isolated catalytic domain but not the chitin-binding domain was sufficient to provide antifungal activity. Furthermore, to explain the lack of obvious pathologic phenotypes in humans homozygous for a widespread mutation that renders chitotriosidase inactive, we postulated that the absence of an active chitotriosidase might be compensated by the expression of another human hydrolytic enzyme such as lysozyme. The comparison of the antifungal properties of chitotriosidase and lysozyme indicated that surprisingly, both enzymes have similar in vitro antifungal properties. Furthermore, despite its more efficient hydrolytic activity on chitin, the observed antifungal activity of chitotriosidase was lower than that of lysozyme. Finally, this antifungal duality between chitotriosidase and lysozyme is discussed in the context of innate immunity. 
15841240	20050421	J._Insect_Sci.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Polygalacturonase from Sitophilus oryzae: possible horizontal transfer of a pectinase gene from fungi to weevils.	Endo-polygalacturonase, one of the group of enzymes known collectively as pectinases, is widely distributed in bacteria, plants and fungi. The enzyme has also been found in several weevil species and a few other insects, such as aphids, but not in Drosophila melanogaster, Anopheles gambiae, or Caenorhabditis elegans or, as far as is known, in any more primitive animal species. What, then, is the genetic origin of the polygalacturonases in weevils? Since some weevil species harbor symbiotic microorganisms, it has been suggested, reasonably, that the symbionts' genomes of both aphids and weevils, rather than the insects' genomes, could encode polygalacturonase. We report here the cloning of a cDNA that encodes endo-polygalacturonase in the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), and investigations based on the cloned cDNA. Our results, which include analysis of genes in antibiotic-treated rice weevils, indicate that the enzyme is, in fact, encoded by the insect genome. Given the apparent absence of the gene in much of the rest of the animal kingdom, it is therefore likely that the rice weevil polygalacturonase gene was incorporated into the weevil's genome by horizontal transfer, possibly from a fungus. 
19728862	20090905	BMC_Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Light-dependent roles of the G-protein alpha subunit GNA1 of Hypocrea jecorina (anamorph Trichoderma reesei).	The filamentous ascomycete Hypocrea jecorina (anamorph Trichoderma reesei) is primarily known for its efficient enzymatic machinery that it utilizes to decompose cellulosic substrates. Nevertheless, the nature and transmission of the signals initiating and modulating this machinery are largely unknown. Heterotrimeric G-protein signaling represents one of the best studied signal transduction pathways in fungi. Analysis of the regulatory targets of the G-protein alpha subunit GNA1 in H. jecorina revealed a carbon source and light-dependent role in signal transduction. Deletion of gna1 led to significantly decreased biomass formation in darkness in submersed culture but had only minor effects on morphology and hyphal apical extension rates on solid medium. Cellulase gene transcription was abolished in Deltagna1 on cellulose in light and enhanced in darkness. However, analysis of strains expressing a constitutively activated GNA1 revealed that GNA1 does not transmit the essential inducing signal. Instead, it relates a modulating signal with light-dependent significance, since induction still required the presence of an inducer. We show that regulation of transcription and activity of GNA1 involves a carbon source-dependent feedback cycle. Additionally we found a function of GNA1 in hydrophobin regulation as well as effects on conidiation and tolerance of osmotic and oxidative stress. We conclude that GNA1 transmits a signal the physiological relevance of which is dependent on both the carbon source as well as the light status. The widespread consequences of mutations in GNA1 indicate a broad function of this Galpha subunit in appropriation of intracellular resources to environmental (especially nutritional) conditions. 
24385885	20140104	ScientificWorldJournal	D016428 D013485 	Chitinase genes LbCHI31 and LbCHI32 from Limonium bicolor were successfully expressed in Escherichia coli and exhibit recombinant chitinase activities.	The two chitinase genes, LbCHI31 and LbCHI32 from Limonium bicolor, were, respectively, expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 strain. The intracellular recombinant chitinases, inrCHI31 and inrCHI32, and the extracellular exrCHI31 and exrCHI32 could be produced into E. coli. The exrCHI31 and exrCHI32 can be secreted into extracellular medium. The optimal reaction condition for inrCHI31 was 5 mmol/L of Mn²⁺ at 40°C and pH 5.0 with an activity of 0.772 U using Alternaria alternata cell wall as substrate. The optimal condition of inrCHI32 was 5 mmol/L of Ba²⁺ at 45°C and pH 5.0 with an activity of 0.792 U using Valsa sordida cell wall as substrate. The optimal reaction condition of exrCHI31 was 5 mmol/L of Zn²⁺ at 40°C and pH 5.0, and the activity was 0.921 U using the A. alternata cell wall as substrate. Simultaneously, the optimal condition of exrCHI32 was 5 mmol/L of K⁺ at 45°C and pH 5.0, with V. sordida cell wall as the substrate, and the activity was 0.897 U. Furthermore, the activities of extracellular recombinant enzymes on fungal cell walls and compounds were generally higher than those of the intracellular recombinant enzymes. Recombinant exrCHI31 and exrCHI32 have better hydrolytic ability on cell walls of different fungi than synthetic chitins and obviously showed activity against A. alternata. 
11309080	20010420	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification of a thermostable endochitinase from Streptomyces RC1071 isolated from a cerrado soil and its antagonism against phytopathogenic fungi.	The chitinolytic activity of an actinomycete, isolated from a tropical acidic ferrasol (FAO) under cerrado (savanna) vegetation, is reported. Selection of the strain was based on spot inoculation on solid colloidal chitin medium. The use of chemotaxonomic, morphological and physiological procedures placed it in the Streptomyces genus, but identification to species level could not be achieved. A protein with endochitinase activity was isolated and purified from the supernatant fluid by concentration, precipitation, hydrophobic interaction, gel filtration and adsorption procedures. The molecular size of the purified chitinase was estimated by gel filtration to be 70 kDa, and its pI was 6.1. The enzyme had temperature and pH optima of 40 degrees C and 8.0, respectively, and showed thermal (30-70 degrees C) and pH (4-9) stabilities. Antifungal activity of the selected strain was observed following in vitro experiments using growing cells, crude extract or the purified endochitinase, and by detecting growth inhibition of the tested phytopathogenic fungi. Strain Streptomyces RC 1071 could not be placed into any known species, suggesting a new taxon. The purified endochitinase presented similar molecular weight, optimum temperature and pH activity, and stability of other endochitinolytic enzymes reported in the literature. In all three in vitro experiments performed, inhibition of growth of the phytopathogenic fungi used as test organisms was observed. Some of the endochitinase characteristics such as thermal stability, as well as pH tolerance, are very interesting for biotechnological purposes. In addition, due to its antifungal activity, Streptomyces RC 1071 seems promising for use in biological control. 
2377893	19900727	Science	D016428 D013485 	Three-dimensional structure of cellobiohydrolase II from Trichoderma reesei.	The enzymatic degradation of cellulose is an important process, both ecologically and commercially. The three-dimensional structure of a cellulase, the enzymatic core of CBHII from the fungus Trichoderma reesei reveals an alpha-beta protein with a fold similar to but different from the widely occurring barrel topology first observed in triose phosphate isomerase. The active site of CBHII is located at the carboxyl-terminal end of a parallel beta barrel, in an enclosed tunnel through which the cellulose threads. Two aspartic acid residues, located in the center of the tunnel are the probable catalytic residues. 
18328729	20080311	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013485 	Escherichia coli expression and purification of four antimicrobial peptides fused to a family 3 carbohydrate-binding module (CBM) from Clostridium thermocellum.	Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are molecules that act in a wide range of physiological defensive mechanisms developed to counteract bacteria, fungi, parasites and viruses. Several hundreds of AMPs have been identified and characterized. These molecules are presently gaining increasing importance, as a consequence of their remarkable resistance to microorganism adaptation. Carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs) are non-catalytic domains that anchor glycoside hydrolases into complex carbohydrates. Clostridium thermocellum produces a multi-enzyme complex of cellulases and hemicellulases, termed the cellulosome, which is organized by the scaffoldin protein CipA. Binding of the cellulosome to the plant cell wall results from the action of CipA family 3 CBM (CBM3), which presents a high affinity for crystalline cellulose. Here CipA family 3 CBM was fused to four different AMPs using recombinant DNA technology and the fusion recombinant proteins were expressed at high levels in Escherichia coli cells. CBM3 does not present antibacterial activity and does not bind to the bacterial surface. However, the four recombinant proteins retained the ability to bind cellulose, suggesting that CBM3 is a good candidate polypeptide to direct the binding of AMPs into cellulosic supports. A comprehensive characterization of the antimicrobial activity of the recombinant fusion proteins is currently under evaluation. 
12941955	20030828	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	The effects of drugs inhibiting protein secretion in the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. Evidence for down-regulation of genes that encode secreted proteins in the stressed cells.	To study the mechanisms of protein secretion as well as the cellular responses to impaired protein folding and transport in filamentous fungi, we have analyzed Trichoderma reesei cultures treated with chemical agents that interfere with these processes, dithiothreitol, brefeldin A, and the Ca(2+)-ionophore A23187. The effects of the drugs on the kinetics of protein synthesis and transport were characterized using metabolic labeling of synthesized proteins. Cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI, Cel7A), the major secreted cellulase, was analyzed as a model protein. Northern analysis showed that under conditions where protein transport was inhibited (treatments with dithiothreitol or brefeldin A) the unfolded protein response pathway was activated. The active form of the hac1 mRNA that mediates unfolded protein response signaling was induced, followed by induction of the foldase and chaperone genes pdi1 and bip1. Concomitant with the activation of the unfolded protein response pathway, the transcript levels of genes encoding secreted proteins, like cellulases and xylanases, were drastically decreased, suggesting a novel type of feedback mechanism activated in response to impairment in protein folding or transport (repression under secretion stress (RESS)). By studying expression of the reporter gene lacZ under cbh1 promoters of different length, it was shown that the feedback response was mediated through the cellulase promoter. 
8196639	19940601	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 	Nucleosomal location of the STE6 TATA box and Mat alpha 2p-mediated repression.	It has been proposed that yeast MATa cell-specific genes are repressed in MAT alpha cells by the Mat alpha 2p repressor-directed placement of a nucleosome in a position that incorporates the TATA box of the MATa-specific gene close to the nucleosomal pseudodyad. In this study, we address this proposal directly with a series of plasmids designed to place the MATa-specific STE6 TATA box at different locations in a nucleosome and in the internucleosomal linker. These plasmids contain different lengths of synthetic random DNA between the Mat alpha 2p operator and the TATA box of the STE6 promoter, which is located upstream of a lacZ reporter gene in a multicopy plasmid. We show that in MAT alpha cells, a nucleosome is retained in an identical translational frame relative to the Mat alpha 2p operator in all the constructs investigated, irrespective of the sequence of the DNA wrapped onto the histone octamer. This result shows that the nucleosomal organization of the STE6 promoter in MAT alpha cells is not conferred by the sequence of the promoter itself. No expression of the lacZ reporter gene was detectable in MAT alpha cells in any of the constructs, even with the TATA box located in a short internucleosomal linker. These data indicate that repression of MATa-specific genes in MAT alpha cells does not require the precise translational placement of the TATA box close to the nucleosomal pseudodyad; the gene remains repressed when the TATA box is located within the investigated 250-bp region in the organized chromatin domain abutting the Mat alpha 2p operator in MAT alpha cells and may remain repressed with the TATA box located anywhere within this organized repression domain. 
16886438	20060805	Wiad_Parazytol	D016428 D013485 	Geotrichum candidum link 1809: hydrolases activity and own method of digestive tract strains biotyping.	Hydrolase activity of (enzymograms, biotypes) in Geotrichum candidum, one of the poorly described pathogenic fungi, was studied 81 strains were isolated from oral cavity and faeces of patients with gastrointestinal tract disorders. Axenic strains were differentiated with API 20C Aux and API ZYM tests. Then, enzymograms and biotypes were determined for all strains based on the activity of 19 hydrolases. High variability of enzymograms (17 different types) was found. The highest activity was noted in case of: e2 - alkaline phosphatase, e6 - leucine arylamidase, e11 - acid phosphatase. E5 - lipase, e7 - valine arylamidase, e12 - naphtol-AS-BI-phosphohydrolase and e17 - beta-glucosidase were used for biotyping procedures. Our own system of biotyping of 81 strains of G. candidum was based on the mathematical binominal distribution formula (1 : 4 : 6 : 4 : 1) - all "+"; one "-", three "+"; two "two "+"; three "-", one "+"; all "-". We have found: A (11.1 +/- 3.5%), BI (6.17 +/- 2.67%), B2 (1.23 +/- 1.22%), B4 (4.94 +/- 2.41%), C, (1.23 +/-1.22%), C3 (63.0 +/- 5.4%), D2 (9.88 +/-3.31%), D3 (2.47 +/- 1.72%). Among all strains from 8 various biotypes of G. candidum. 
826331	19761122	C.R._Hebd._Seances_Acad._Sci.,_Ser._D,_Sci._Nat.	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Action of various beta(1-3)-D-glucanases on the wall of yeasts: taxonomic applications].	Purified beta-(1-3)-D-glucanases (from Aspergillus nidulans, Badidiomycetes sp. QM 806, Trichoderma viride) are used to release protoplasts from various yeasts. Two of them may prove taxonomic correlation. The enzyme of Basidomycetes sp. releases protoplasts from Ascomycetes, the enzyme of T. viride releases protoplasts from Ascomycetes and Heterobasidiomycetes; none of them acts on the Basidiomycetes. 
15379246	20040924	Sci._China,_C,_Life_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	The synergetic effects of two CCAAT boxes in Aspergillus niger glaA gene promoter on activation of PglaA transcription.	EMSA and footprinting analyses have revealed that the -489-- -414 bp and the -390-- -345 bp (designated DC and PC respectively) upstream of the Aspergillus nigerT21 glaA gene were bound by one protein factor in the A. nigerT21 whole cell extract. Both DC and PC contained CCAAT pentanucleotides. The functions of DC and PC in regulation of expression of glucoamylase (GLA) were studied. CCAAT pentanucleotides were replaced with CGTAA and the mutated DNA fragments DCm and PCm lost the binding activities of protein factors in vitro. In vivo when either DC or PC was mutated or the relative orientations between them were changed on the PglaA, the transcriptional activity of PglaA decreased to a basal level. Introduction of multi-copies of DC into the original site at the PglaA in A. nigerT21 decreased the expression of endogenous GLA expression and the exogenous reporter E. coli uidA gene introduced under the PglaA promoter, while having no effect on the uidA gene under the control of PgpdA. EMSA revealed that the levels of the specific DNA-binding protein factors in the transformants maintained the same meaning that introduction of multi-copies of DC caused the titration effect. AnghapC gene was cloned from A. nigerT21 cDNA and introduced into the DC multi-copied strains. The expression of AnghapC improved the expression of the endogenous GLA and the exogenous gene controlled by PglaA. These results showed that both the CCAAT pentanucleotides were necessary for DC and PC binding to the protein factors, and the simultaneous binding of DC and PC to the protein was necessary for promoting the transcriptional activity of PglaA. AngHapC was the specific positive trans-acting protein factor binding to DC. 
8374618	19930501	Plant_J.	D016428 	Action of a pure xyloglucan endo-transglycosylase (formerly called xyloglucan-specific endo-(1-->4)-beta-D-glucanase) from the cotyledons of germinated nasturtium seeds.	The action on tamarind seed xyloglucan of the pure, xyloglucan-specific endo-(1-->4)-beta-D-glucanase from nasturtium (Tropaeolum majus L.) cotyledons has been compared with that of a pure endo-(1-->)-beta-D-glucanase ('cellulase') of fungal origin. The fungal enzyme hydrolysed the polysaccharide almost completely to a mixture of the four xyloglucan oligosaccharides: [formula: see text] Exhaustive digestion with the nasturtium enzyme gave the same four oligosaccharides plus large amounts of higher oligosaccharides and higher-polymeric material. Five of the product oligosaccharides (D, E, F, G, H) were purified and shown to be dimers of oligosaccharides A to C. D (glc8xyl6) had the structure A-->A, H (glc8xyl6 gal4) was C-->C, whereas E (glc8xyl6gal), F (glc8xyl6gal2) and G (glc8xyl6gal3) were mixtures of structural isomers with the appropriate composition. For example, F contained B2-->B2 (30%), A-->C (30%), C-->A (20%), B2-->B1 (15%) and others (about 5%). At moderate concentration (about 3 mM) oligosaccharides D to H were not further hydrolysed by the nasturtium enzyme, but underwent transglycosylation to give oligosaccharides from the group A, B, C, plus higher oligomeric structures. At lower substrate concentrations, hydrolysis was observed. Similarly, tamarind seed xyloglucan was hydrolysed to a greater extent at lower concentrations. It is concluded that the xyloglucan-specific nasturtium-seed endo-(1-->4)-beta-D-glucanase has a powerful xyloglucan-xyloglucan endo-transglycosylase activity in addition to its known xyloglucan-specific hydrolytic action. It would be more appropriately classified as a xyloglucan endo-transglycosylase. The action and specificity of the nasturtium enzyme are discussed in the context of xyloglucan metabolism in the cell walls of seeds and in other plant tissues. 
23461515	20130307	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of the grain mold fungi Cochliobolus and Alternaria spp. from sorghum using semiselective media and DNA sequence analyses.	Mold diseases, caused by fungal complexes including Alternaria, Cochliobolus, and Fusarium species, limit sorghum grain production. Media were tested by plating Fusarium thapsinum, Alternaria sp., and Curvularia lunata, individually and competitively. Dichloran chloramphenicol rose bengal (DRBC) and modified V8 juice (ModV8) agars, found to be useful, were compared with commonly used agar media, dichloran chloramphenicol peptone (DCPA) and pentachloronitrobenzene (PCNB). Radial growth, starting with mycelia or single-conidia and hyphal tips, demonstrated an effect of media. For isolation of grain fungi, DRBC and ModV8 were similar or superior to DCPA and PCNB. When seedlings were inoculated with conidia of C. lunata, Alternaria sp., F. thapsinum, or mixtures, the percentage of root infection ranged from 28% to 77%. For mixed inoculations, shoot weights, lesion lengths, and percentage of root infections were similar to F. thapsinum inoculations; most colonies recovered from roots were F. thapsinum. For Alternaria grain isolates, 5 morphological types, including Alternaria alternata, were distinguished by colony morphologies and conidial dimensions. Sequence analysis using a portion of the endo-polygalacturonase gene was able to further distinguish isolates. Cochliobolus isolates were identified morphologically as C. lunata, Curvularia sorghina, and Bipolaris sorghicola. Multiple molecular genotypes were apparent from rRNA internal transcribed spacer region sequences from Cochliobolus grain isolates. 
23305326	20130112	ACS_Chem._Biol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 D013486 	Improved manganese-oxidizing activity of DypB, a peroxidase from a lignolytic bacterium.	DypB, a dye-decolorizing peroxidase from the lignolytic soil bacterium Rhodococcus jostii RHA1, catalyzes the peroxide-dependent oxidation of divalent manganese (Mn(2+)), albeit less efficiently than fungal manganese peroxidases. Substitution of Asn246, a distal heme residue, with alanine increased the enzyme's apparent k(cat) and k(cat)/K(m) values for Mn(2+) by 80- and 15-fold, respectively. A 2.2 Å resolution X-ray crystal structure of the N246A variant revealed the Mn(2+) to be bound within a pocket of acidic residues at the heme edge, reminiscent of the binding site in fungal manganese peroxidase and very different from that of another bacterial Mn(2+)-oxidizing peroxidase. The first coordination sphere was entirely composed of solvent, consistent with the variant's high K(m) for Mn(2+) (17 ± 2 mM). N246A catalyzed the manganese-dependent transformation of hard wood kraft lignin and its solvent-extracted fractions. Two of the major degradation products were identified as 2,6-dimethoxybenzoquinone and 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzaldehyde, respectively. These results highlight the potential of bacterial enzymes as biocatalysts to transform lignin. 
16012837	20050714	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and properties of Aspergillus niger IBT-90 xylanase for bakery.	Xylanase of low molecular weight (K II) was isolated from the fungus Aspergillus niger IBT-90 cultivated in medium with wheat bran. K II was purified by precipitation with ammonium sulphate (20-80% saturation) and gel filtration on Biogel P-10. This enzyme is most active in hydrolysis of birchwood xylan at 50 degrees C and pH 5.5. Xylanase K II has an ability to degrade 1,4-beta-bonds and to debranch substrates. It degrades not only xylans but also cellulose, an important factor for its application in bakery. Ag+, Fe3+ and NBS are strong inhibitors of the enzyme. DTT and Na+ activate xylanase K II by 24 and 13%, respectively. Enzyme K II used as additive to flour improves dough properties, increases the volume of wheat-rye and whole meal bread, and increases the porosity of crumb and the moisture of the final product, consequently extending the shelf life of bread. 
7764247	19931201	Biotechnology_(N.Y.)	D016428 D013485 	A bifunctional affinity linker to couple antibodies to cellulose.	We have constructed a fusion protein between the staphylococcal A protein and the cellulose binding domain of an exoglucanase (Cex) from Cellulomonas fimi that can be directly immobilized on cellulose while retaining its capacity to bind immunoglobulin G molecules. The cellulose domain provides binding that does not interfere with the biological activity of the fusion partner, does not involve hazardous chemicals and the matrix does not need to be chemically activated which reduces its cost. We have tested some of the possible applications of the fusion protein and show that it can be used in immunoassays, affinity chromatography and immunoprecipitations. 
23844364	20130712	Biomed_Res_Int	D016428 D013485 	Effects of chitosan on Candida albicans: conditions for its antifungal activity.	The effects of low molecular weight (96.5 KDa) chitosan on the pathogenic yeast Candida albicans were studied. Low concentrations of chitosan, around 2.5 to 10 μ g·mL(-1) produced (a) an efflux of K(+) and stimulation of extracellular acidification, (b) an inhibition of Rb(+) uptake, (c) an increased transmembrane potential difference of the cells, and (d) an increased uptake of Ca(2+). It is proposed that these effects are due to a decrease of the negative surface charge of the cells resulting from a strong binding of the polymer to the cells. At higher concentrations, besides the efflux of K(+), it produced (a) a large efflux of phosphates and material absorbing at 260 nm, (b) a decreased uptake of Ca(2+), (c) an inhibition of fermentation and respiration, and (d) the inhibition of growth. The effects depend on the medium used and the amount of cells, but in YPD high concentrations close to 1 mg·mL(-1) are required to produce the disruption of the cell membrane, the efflux of protein, and the growth inhibition. Besides the findings at low chitosan concentrations, this work provides an insight of the conditions required for chitosan to act as a fungistatic or antifungal and proposes a method for the permeabilization of yeast cells. 
18597050	20080704	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Optimization of the production of thermostable endo-beta-1,4 mannanases from a newly isolated Aspergillus niger gr and Aspergillus flavus gr.	The aim of this work was to establish optimal conditions for the maximum production of endo-beta-1,4 mannanases using cheaper sources. Eight thermotolerant fungal strains were isolated from garden soil and compost samples collected in and around the Gulbarga University campus, India. Two strains were selected based on their ability to produce considerable endo-beta-1,4 mannanases activity while growing in liquid medium at 37 degrees C with locust bean gum (LBG) as the only carbon source. They were identified as Aspergillus niger gr and Aspergillus flavus gr. The experiment to evaluate the effect of different carbon sources, nitrogen sources, temperatures and initial pH of the medium on maximal enzyme production was studied. Enzyme productivity was influenced by the type of polysaccharide used as the carbon source. Copra meal defatted with n-hexane showed to be a better substrate than LBG and guar gum for endo-beta-1,4 mannanases production by A. niger gr (40.011 U/ml), but for A. flavus gr (33.532 U/ml), the difference was not significant. Endo-beta-1,4 mannanases produced from A. niger gr and A. flavus gr have high optimum temperature (65 and 60 degrees C) and good thermostability in the absence of any stabilizers (maintaining 50% of residual activity for 8 and 6 h, respectively, at 60 degrees C) and are stable over in a wide pH range. These new strains offer an attractive alternative source of enzymes for the food and feed processing industries. 
24141132	20131022	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Microbial biotransformation of gentiopicroside by the endophytic fungus Penicillium crustosum 2T01Y01.	Endophytic fungi are symbiotic with plants and possess multienzyme systems showing promising metabolite potency with region selectivity and stereoselectivity. The aim of this study was to use these special microorganisms as an in vitro model to mimic the potential mammalian metabolites of a natural iridoid gentiopicroside (GPS, compound 1). The fungi isolated from a medicinal plant, Dendrobium candidum Wall. ex Lindl., were screened for their biotransformation abilities with GPS as the substrate, and one strain with high converting potency was identified as Penicillium crustosum 2T01Y01 on the basis of the sequence of the internal transcribed spacer of the ribosomal DNA region. Upon the optimized incubation of P. crustosum 2T01Y01 with the substrate, seven deglycosylated metabolites were detected by ultraperformance liquid chromatography/quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry (UPLC/Q-TOF MS). Preparative-scale biotransformation with whole cells of the endophytic fungus resulted in the production of five metabolites, including three novel ones, 5α-(hydroxymethyl)-6β-methyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydropyrano[3,4-c]pyran-1(8H)-one (compound 2), (Z)-4-(1-hydroxybut-3-en-2-yl)-5,6-dihydropyran-2-one (compound 3), and (E)-4-(1-hydroxybut-3-en-2-yl)-5,6-dihydropyran-2-one (compound 4), along with two known ones, 5α-(hydroxymethyl)-6β-methyl-1H,3H-5,6-dihydropyrano[3,4-c]pyran-1(3H)-one (compound 5) and 5α-(hydroxymethyl)-6α-methyl-5,6-dihydropyrano[3,4-c]pyran-1(3H)-one (compound 6), aided by nuclear magnetic resonance and high-resolution mass spectral analyses. The other two metabolites were tentatively identified by online UPLC/Q-TOF MS as 5-hydroxymethyl-5,6-dihydroisochromen-1-one (compound 7) and 5-hydroxymethyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydroisochromen-1-one (compound 8), and compound 8 is a new metabolite. To test the metabolic mechanism, the β-glucosidase activity of the fungus P. crustosum 2T01Y01 was assayed with ρ-nitrophenyl-β-d-glucopyranoside as a probe substrate, and the pathway of GPS biotransformation by strain 2T01Y01 is proposed. In addition, the hepatoprotective activities of GPS and metabolite compounds 2, 5, and 6 against human hepatocyte line HL-7702 injury induced by hydrogen peroxide were evaluated.  
21849025	20110819	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Functional characterization of cellulases identified from the cow rumen fungus Neocallimastix patriciarum W5 by transcriptomic and secretomic analyses.	Neocallimastix patriciarum is one of the common anaerobic fungi in the digestive tracts of ruminants that can actively digest cellulosic materials, and its cellulases have great potential for hydrolyzing cellulosic feedstocks. Due to the difficulty in culture and lack of a genome database, it is not easy to gain a global understanding of the glycosyl hydrolases (GHs) produced by this anaerobic fungus. We have developed an efficient platform that uses a combination of transcriptomic and proteomic approaches to N. patriciarum to accelerate gene identification, enzyme classification and application in rice straw degradation. By conducting complementary studies of transcriptome (Roche 454 GS and Illumina GA IIx) and secretome (ESI-Trap LC-MS/MS), we identified 219 putative GH contigs and classified them into 25 GH families. The secretome analysis identified four major enzymes involved in rice straw degradation: β-glucosidase, endo-1,4-β-xylanase, xylanase B and Cel48A exoglucanase. From the sequences of assembled contigs, we cloned 19 putative cellulase genes, including the GH1, GH3, GH5, GH6, GH9, GH18, GH43 and GH48 gene families, which were highly expressed in N. patriciarum cultures grown on different feedstocks. These GH genes were expressed in Pichia pastoris and/or Saccharomyces cerevisiae for functional characterization. At least five novel cellulases displayed cellulytic activity for glucose production. One β-glucosidase (W5-16143) and one exocellulase (W5-CAT26) showed strong activities and could potentially be developed into commercial enzymes. 
8736124	19960301	Braz._J._Med._Biol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Chitin-binding proteins from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) seeds.	Vicilins (7S storage proteins) from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) and other legume seeds were shown to bind to chitin, to regenerated chitin (fully acetylated chitin) and to chitosan (deacetylated chitin). Adsorbed vicilins were desorbed from these matrices by acetic and hydrochloric acids and by highly polymerized soluble chitosan. Proteins such as the lectin of common bean (PHA), soybean trypsin inhibitor (Kunitz), a beta-1,3-glucanase from cowpea seeds, bovine pancreatic alpha-chymotrypsin, chicken ovalbumin, serum albumin and rabbit gamma-globulin did not bind. The present result is the first description of vicilin binding to chitin but other proteins, such as wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), a lectin that contains the so called "chitin-binding domain", and a chitinase isolated from cowpea seeds, which are involved in the defense mechanisms of plants against insects and fungi, were also shown to bind to chitin as previously reported. The binding of vicilins to chitin is probably effected not through a "chitin-binding domain" because they do not share this sequence with the defense-related proteins cited above. We propose that this association of vicilins with chitin may be related to the effect of variant vicilins on the development of Callosobruchus maculatus (bruchid) in resistant cowpea seeds. 
16917955	20060819	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013486 	A complete enzymatic recovery of ferulic acid from corn residues with extracellular enzymes from Neosartorya spinosa NRRL185.	An economic ferulic acid recovery from biomass via biological methods is of interest for a number of reasons. Ferulic acid is a precursor to vanillin synthesis. It is also a known antioxidant with potential food and medical applications. Despite its universal presence in all plant cell wall material, the complex structure of the plant cell wall makes ferulic acid recovery from biomass a challenging bioprocess. Previously, without pretreatment, very low (3-13%) recovery of ferulic acid from corn residues was achieved. We report here the discovery of a filamentous fungus Neosartorya spinosa NRRL185 capable of producing a full complement of enzymes to release ferulic acid and the development of an enzymatic process for a complete recovery of ferulic acid from corn bran and corn fibers. A partial characterization of the extracellular proteome of the microbe revealed the presence of at least seven cellulases and hemicellulases activities, including multiple iso-forms of xylanase and ferulic acid esterase. The recovered ferulic acid was bio-converted to vanillin, demonstrating its potential application in natural vanillin synthesis. The enzymatic ferulic acid recovery accompanied a significant release of reducing sugars (76-100%), suggesting much broader applications of the enzymes and enzyme mixtures from this organism. 
12067381	20020618	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Transformation and expression of an anaerobic fungal xylanase in several strains of the rumen bacterium Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens.	To obtain reliable transformation of a range of Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens strains and to express a Neocallimastix patriciarum xylanase gene in the recipients. Eight strains (H17c, E14, LP1309, LP1028, AR11a, OB156, LP210B and LP461A) of Bu. fibrisolvens were transformed by the Gram-positive vector pUB110. A xylanase expression/secretion cassette containing Bu. fibrisolvens promoter and signal peptide elements fused to catalytic domain II of the N. patriciarum xylanase A cDNA (xynANp) was inserted into pUB110 to create the plasmid pUBxynA. pUBxynA was used to transform seven of the Bu. fibrisolvens strains transformed by pUB110. In strain H17c pUBxynA, which produced native xylanase, 2.46 U mg-1 total xylanase activity was produced with 45% extracellular xylanase. In strain H17c pUMSX, 0.74 U mg-1 total xylanase activity was produced with 98% extracellular xylanase. H17c pUBxynA exhibited increased (28.7%) degradation of neutral detergent fibre compared with unmodified H17c; however, progressive loss of pUBxynA was observed in long-term cultivation. A stable transformation system was developed that was applicable for a range of Bu. fibrisolvens strains and high levels of expression of a recombinant xylanase were obtained in H17c which lead to increased fibre digestion. This stable transformation system with the accompanying recombinant plasmids will be a useful tool for further investigation aimed at improving ruminal fibre digestion. 
22260051	20120121	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D016428 D013485 	Antibacterial effect and cytotoxicity of beta-1,3-1, 4-glucanase from endophytic Bacillus subtilis SWB8.	We studied the antibiotic activity and selective cytotoxicity of beta-1,3-1,4-glucanase from endophytic Bacillus subtilis SWB8. Based on gel permeation chromatography, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry methods, protein fragments of beta-1,3-1,4-glucanase from endophytic Bacillus subtilis strain SWB8 were purified and identified. Then, beta-1,3-1,4-glucanase was used to evaluate the antimicrobial activity against Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhi, Salmonella paratyphi A, Shigella dysenteriae, Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans and cytotoxicity against human pulmonary adenocarcinoma cells (A549) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) by using the disc diffusion, methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium and flow cytometry methods, respectively. Bacterial beta-1,3-1,4-glucanase showed broad antimicrobial spectrum against all nine bacterial and fungal strains. Furthermore, beta-1,3-1,4-glucanase possessed significant anticancer activity against A549 cells that the IC50 and IC90 values were 11.5 and 20.1 microg/mL, respectively. The percentage of apoptotic A549 cells treated with different concentrations of beta-1,3-1,4-glucanase was significantly increased from 4.43% of the control to 43.1% of 19.2 microg/mL glucanase in a dose dependent manner. In contrast, these changes could not be observed in human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. Beta-1,3-1,4-glucanase could be a potential source of desirable antimicrobial agent, or anticancer compounds with higher efficiency and lower toxicity. 
24228828	20131116	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Transient kinetics and rate-limiting steps for the processive cellobiohydrolase Cel7A: effects of substrate structure and carbohydrate binding domain.	Cellobiohydrolases are exoacting, processive enzymes that effectively hydrolyze crystalline cellulose. They have attracted considerable interest because of their role in both natural carbon cycling and industrial enzyme cocktails used for the deconstruction of cellulosic biomass, but many mechanistic and regulatory aspects of their heterogeneous catalysis remain poorly understood. Here, we address this by applying a deterministic model to real-time kinetic data with high temporal resolution. We used two variants of the cellobiohydrolase Cel7A from Hypocrea jecorina , and three types of cellulose as substrate. Analysis of the pre-steady-state regime allowed delineation rate constants for both fast and slow steps in the enzymatic cycle and assessment of how these constants influenced the rate of hydrolysis at quasi-steady state. Processive movement on the cellulose strand advanced with characteristic times of 0.15-0.7 s per step at 25 °C, and the rate was highest on amorphous substrate. The cellulose binding module was found to raise this rate on crystalline, but not on amorphous, substrate. The rapid processive movement signified high intrinsic reactivity, but this parameter had marginal influence on the steady-state rate. This was because dissociation and association were slower and, hence, rate limiting. Specifically, the dissociation from the strand was found to occur with characteristic times of 45-100 s. This meant that dissociation was the bottleneck, except at very low substrate loads (0.5-1 g/L), where association became slower.  
10747977	20000405	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Architectural principles for the structure and function of the glucocorticoid receptor tau 1 core activation domain.	A 58-amino acid region mediates the core transactivation activity of the glucocorticoid receptor tau1 activation domain. This tau1 core domain is unstructured in aqueous buffers, but in the presence of trifluoroethanol three alpha-helical segments are induced. Two of these putative structural modules have been tested in different combinations with regard to transactivation potential in vivo and binding capacity to the coactivators in vitro. The results show that whereas single modules are not transcriptionally active, any combination of two or three modules is sufficient, with trimodular constructs having the highest activity. However, proteins containing one, two, or three segments bind Ada2 and cAMP-response element-binding protein with similar affinity. A single segment is thus able to bind a target factor but cannot transactivate target genes significantly. The results are consistent with models in which activation domains are comprised of short activation modules that allow multiple interactions with coactivators. Our results also suggest that an increased number of modules may not result in correspondingly higher affinity but instead that the concentration of binding sites is increased, which gives rise to a higher association rate. This is consistent with a model where the association rate for activator-target factor interactions rather than the equilibrium constant is the most relevant measure of activator potency. 
6283520	19820101	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 D016454 	[Microbial alpha-galactosidase (a review)].	The review discusses properties, distribution and potential use of microbial alpha-galactosidase (alpha-D-galactoside galactohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.22), the enzyme catalyzing degradation of alpha-D-galactoside bonds. Recent years have witnessed many publications describing microbial alpha-galactosidase which, in contrast to the similar enzyme from higher plants, has been poorly studied. The microbial enzyme has certain specificities: a smaller substrate specificity, existence in one molecular form, etc. The present communication is an attempt to systematize the data about microbial alpha-galactosidase and to outline the most important investigations for the future. 
22733581	20120627	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Influence of phosphorus and pH on the fungicidal potential of Anabaena strains.	The genus Anabaena is known to be a rich source of bioactive metabolites, but the biocontrol potential of this genus, mediated through hydrolytic enzymes is less investigated. In our investigation, five Anabaena strains - A. laxa RPAN8, A. iyengarii RPAN9, A. variabilis RPAN59 and A. oscillarioides RPAN69 (with A. variabilis RPAN16 serving as negative control) were evaluated in time course studies involving incubation under three levels of phosphorus and pH conditions. Total chlorophyll, proteins, chitosanase, endoglucanase and CMCase activity were measured and inhibition assayed against phytopathogenic fungi. The four weeks old RPAN69 culture showed significantly higher chlorophyll which was 41% higher than control. This was also linked with an enhancement of 18.26% and 9.18% in chitosanase and CMCase activity respectively over control in the treatment involving half dose of phosphorus. Chlorophyll and CMCase activity showed a high degree of correlation with highest values at pH 9.5. A pH of 5.5 was the most suitable condition for the maximum activity of chitosanase for all the strains except RPAN16. The strains RPAN8 and RPAN9 showed the highest activity of endoglucanase at pH 5.5 while the other strains exhibited maximum activity at pH 7.5. This study provides insight into the role of P and pH in modulating fungicidal activity in different Anabaena strains, which can be valuable for enhancing their efficiency as a biocontrol agent. 
18291544	20080223	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of two laccase genes from the white-rot fungus Pleurotus eryngii and heterologous expression of the pel3 encoded protein.	In this paper we report the cloning and nucleotide sequence analysis of two new laccase genes from the white-rot fungus Pleurotus eryngii, named pel3 and pel4. Comparison of the protein sequences deduced from these genes with laccases previously described in P. eryngii indicates that these genes codify for new laccases in this fungus. We described the expression of pel3 gene in two different Aspergillus niger strains. Both the laccase signal peptide and the glucoamylase preprosequence of A. niger were used to target the secretion of the active enzyme. The highest levels of laccase expression were obtained by combining the last construction with an A. niger strain deficient in extracellular proteases secretion. The characterization of catalytic properties of the recombinant enzyme, together with the setting-up of a heterologous expression system for pel3, will provide the basis to study the biotechnological applications of this enzyme. 
22134638	20111203	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Fungal chitinases: diversity, mechanistic properties and biotechnological potential.	Chitin derivatives, chitosan and substituted chito-oligosaccharides have a wide spectrum of applications ranging from medicine to cosmetics and dietary supplements. With advancing knowledge about the substrate-binding properties of chitinases, enzyme-based production of these biotechnologically relevant sugars from biological resources is becoming increasingly interesting. Fungi have high numbers of glycoside hydrolase family 18 chitinases with different substrate-binding site architectures. As presented in this review, the large diversity of fungal chitinases is an interesting starting point for protein engineering. In this review, recent data about the architecture of the substrate-binding clefts of fungal chitinases, in connection with their hydrolytic and transglycolytic abilities, and the development of chitinase inhibitors are summarized. Furthermore, the biological functions of chitinases, chitin and chitosan utilization by fungi, and the effects of these aspects on biotechnological applications, including protein overexpression and autolysis during industrial processes, are discussed in this review. 
12200316	20020830	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of differentially expressed genes in the mycelium and fruit body of Tuber borchii.	The transition from vegetative mycelium to fruit body in truffles requires differentiation processes which lead to edible fruit bodies (ascomata) consisting of different cell and tissue types. The identification of genes differentially expressed during these developmental processes can contribute greatly to a better understanding of truffle morphogenesis. A cDNA library was constructed from vegetative mycelium RNAs of the white truffle Tuber borchii, and 214 cDNAs were sequenced. Up to 58% of the expressed sequence tags corresponded to known genes. The majority of the identified sequences represented housekeeping proteins, i.e., proteins involved in gene or protein expression, cell wall formation, primary and secondary metabolism, and signaling pathways. We screened 171 arrayed cDNAs by using cDNA probes constructed from mRNAs of vegetative mycelium and ascomata to identify fruit body-regulated genes. Comparisons of signals from vegetative mycelium and fruit bodies bearing 15 or 70% mature spores revealed significant differences in the expression levels for up to 33% of the investigated genes. The expression levels for six highly regulated genes were confirmed by RNA blot analyses. The expression of glutamine synthetase, 5-aminolevulinic acid synthetase, isocitrate lyase, thioredoxin, glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase, and UDP-glucose:sterol glucosyl transferase was highly up-regulated, suggesting that amino acid biosynthesis, the glyoxylate cycle pathway, and cell wall synthesis are strikingly altered during morphogenesis. 
18511187	20080531	J._Hazard._Mater.	D016428 D013485 	Microbial and nutrient stabilization of two animal manures after the transit through the gut of the earthworm Eisenia fetida (Savigny, 1826).	Here we studied how the transit through the gut of the earthworm Eisenia fetida affects the microbial and nutrient stabilization of pig and cow manure, by analyzing fresh casts. Earthworms reduced the pools of dissolved organic C and N in casts from both types of manure, as wells as mineral N. Microbial biomass was enhanced only in casts from pig manure and did not change in casts from cow manure, and fungal populations only raised in casts from cow manure. Earthworms reduced microbial activity in casts from cow manure and did not modify in casts from pig slurry. Enzyme activities in casts also depended on the manure ingested; there were no changes in dehydrogenase and beta-glucosidase activities, whereas acid and alkaline phosphatases increased. The results indicate that the first stage in vermicomposting of pig and cow manure by E. fetida, i.e. casting, produced a microbial stabilization decreasing the activity of microorganisms; this stabilization occurred despite of the increase in microbial biomass. The strong reduction in nutrient pools of manures may be the responsible of this contradiction. These changes will influence the dynamics of the organic matter degradation by reducing forms of C and N available to microorganisms and hence restricting their growth and multiplication. Nevertheless, casts were also characterized by an increased enzyme potential that might lead to a further thorough degradation of pig and cow manure. 
19623954	20090724	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Construction of integrative vector of Candida utilis].	Xylanase is ahemicellulase. It can reduce xylan, which is the abundance resource on our earth. It is important in industries to obtain recombinant strains secreting xylanase to degrade hemicelluloses and produce xylose as desired products. We constructed an integrative vector of Candida utilis for xylanase expression. On the basis of plasmid pBR322, an integrative expression vector pGLR9K for Candida utilis was constructed that contained strong promoter of GAP, 18S rDNA sequence for homologous recombination and mutated L41 gene as CYH resistant marker. Recombinant expression vector pGLXR was constructed by adding xylanase gene to the pGLR9K and then was transferred into C. utilis. Both intracellular and extracellular xylanase activities were detected in transgenic strains. This system can be used for exogenous genes expression in transgenic C. utilis. 
8482789	19930201	J._Biochem._Biophys._Methods	D016428 D013485 	Real-time kinetic analysis of limited proteolysis by ion-exchange chromatography using compressed, non-porous agarose beads.	In biotechnology there is a great need for methods that can be used for kinetic studies of ongoing processes, such as limited proteolysis. Ion-exchange chromatography on a nonporous, compressed agarose matrix was used in the study presented in this paper to monitor papain cleavage of fungal cellulases. This non-porous matrix allows completion of a chromatographic analysis, with baseline resolution, within 30-60 s. Utilizing this very fast chromatographic method one can monitor a proteolysis 'continuously' by repeated chromatographic analysis of the incubation mixture and, if desired, terminate it at the optimal moment. Fractions were also collected for identification by activity assays and analytical SDS-PAGE. 
19016884	20081120	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Acid trehalase is involved in intracellular trehalose mobilization during postdiauxic growth and severe saline stress in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The role of the acid trehalase encoded by the ATH1 gene in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is still unclear. In this work, we investigated the regulation of ATH1 transcription and found a clear involvement of the protein kinase Hog1p in the induction of this gene under severe stress conditions, such as high salt. We also detected changes in the acid trehalase activity and trehalose levels, indicating a role of the acid trehalase in intracellular trehalose mobilization. Finally, the growth analysis for different mutants in neutral and acid trehalases after high salt stress implicates acid trehalase activity in saline stress resistance. 
7598694	19950626	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Interaction of the A alpha Y and Z mating-type homeodomain proteins of Schizophyllum commune detected by the two-hybrid system.	The A alpha locus is one of four mating-type loci that control sexual development in Schizophyllum commune. A alpha has nine alternative mating types (A alpha 1-A alpha 9) which encode specific alleles of two homeodomain-related proteins, Y and Z. For example, proteins Y4 and Z4 are encoded by A alpha 4, and Y5 and Z5 are encoded by A alpha 5. Our previous studies showed that A alpha-regulated development is activated in fusion cells between haploid strains by the presence of Y and Z proteins derived from different A alpha mating types (e.g., Y4 and Z5), but not by proteins from the same mating type (e.g., Y4 and Z4). In this study we analyzed protein-protein interactions of Y4 with the Z4 and Z5 isoforms in a two-hybrid system. Protein interactions were detected in filter and liquid assays for beta-galactosidase with Y4 and Z5, a non-self, developmentally active combination, but not with Y4 and Z4, a self, developmentally inactive combination. These results support the hypothesis that non-self combinations of Y and Z form a heteromultimer that activates development, but that self combinations do not. Although developmental target genes directly regulated by the A alpha locus have yet to be identified, it is assumed on the basis of motifs encoded that the Y-Z heteromultimer acts as a transcription factor. 
22471203	20120405	J_Environ_Biol	D016428 	Studies on influence of natural biowastes on cellulase production by Aspergillus niger.	The objective of this study was to determine the influence of natural biowaste substrates such as banana peel powder and coir powder at varying environmental parameters of pH (4-9) and temperature (20-50 degrees C) on the cellulase enzyme production by Aspergillus niger. The cellulase enzyme production was analyzed by measuring the amount of glucose liberated in IU ml(-1) by using the dinitrosalicylic acid assay method. The substrates were pretreated with 1% NaOH (alkaline treatment) and autoclaved. The maximum activity of the enzyme was assayed at varying pH with temperatures being constant and varying temperatures with pH being constant. The highest activity of the enzyme at varying pH was recorded at pH 6 for banana peel powder (0.068 +/- 0.002 IU ml) and coir powder (0.049 +/- 0.002 IU ml(-1)) and the maximum activity of the enzyme at varying temperature was recorded at 35 degrees C for both banana peel powder (0.072 +/- 0.001 IU ml(-1)) and coir powder (0.046 +/- 0.003 IU ml(-1)). At varying temperatures and pH the high level of enzyme production was obtained at 35 degrees C and pH 6 by using both the substrates, respectively. However among the two substrates used for the production of cellulases by Aspergillus niger banana peel powder showed maximum enzymatic activity than coir powder as substrate. 
13129622	20030918	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a Candida albicans gene encoding a putative transcriptional factor required for cell wall integrity.	After screening a Candida albicans genome database the product of an open reading frame (ORF) (CA2880) with 49% homology to the product of Saccharomyces cerevisiae YPL133c, a putative transcriptional factor, was identified. The disruption of the C. albicans gene leads to a major sensitivity to calcofluor white and Congo red, a minor sensitivity to sodium dodecyl sulfate, a major resistance to zymolyase, and an alteration of the chemical composition of the cell wall. For these reasons we called it CaCWT1 (for C. albicans cell wall transcription factor). CaCwt1p contains a putative Zn(II) Cys(6) DNA binding domain characteristic of some transcriptional factors and a PAS domain. The CaCWT1 gene is more expressed in stationary phase cells than in cells growing exponentially. To our knowledge, this is the first Zn(II) Cys(6) transcriptional factor-encoding gene implicated in the cell wall architecture. 
1906376	19910101	Crit._Rev._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Microbial beta-glucanases different from cellulases.	The beta-glucans different from cellulose are the most abundant class of polysaccharides. They are found in microorganisms and higher plants as structural entities of cell wall, as cytoplasmic and vacuolar reserve materials, and as extracellular substances. Enzyme systems capable to hydrolyze beta-glucans are produced by different microorganisms. The occurrence and nature of beta-glucanases and their substrates are reviewed. The regulation of biosynthesis of these enzymes, their properties, substrate and product specificities, mode of action and molecular cloning are described. The participation of beta-glucanases in the morphogenetic events of yeast cell is presented. The role and synergism of different types of 1,3-beta-glucanases in microbial cell wall lysis and the potential application for isolation of intracellular materials like proteins, carbohydrates, enzymes and as an analytical tool are discussed in the light of current knowledge. 
7527628	19941101	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Production of some extracellular enzymes by a lignin peroxidase-producing brown rot fungus, Polyporus ostreiformis, and its comparative abilities for lignin degradation and dye decolorization.	Polyporus ostreiformis produced Mn peroxidase, acid protease, alpha-amylase, and lignin peroxidase, with maximum activities of 40, 8,300, and 4,200 U liter-1 and 50 nkat liter-1, respectively, in nitrogen-limited liquid media. The fungus removed only 18.6% lignin from rice straw in 3 weeks but effected 99% decolorization of Congo red dye in 9 days. 
1044284	19760101	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Kinetic studies of alpha-galactosidase-containing mold pellets on PNPG hydrolysis.	Little is known about techniques for applying untreated microbial cells containing enzymes directly to industrial processes as a biocatalyst. The kinetic behavior of alpha-galactosidase-containing spherical pellets which are formed naturally under given conditions in a submerged culture of Mortierella vinacea was studied on the hydrolysis of PNPG (p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside). The effect on intraparticle diffusion on the overall reaction rate was assessed by the use of an effectiveness factor, which was calculated by the approximate solution to the equation derived from the mass balance within a pellet. The experimental effectiveness factors were found to be represented as a single function of the modified Thiele modulus, including such parameters as pellet size, enzyme concentration in the pellet, and substrate concentration. As the diffusional effect became more significant, the marked substrate inhibition as seen for a free enzyme disappeared gradually. The effect of product inhibition on the pellets was much weaker than that for a free enzyme at a given substrate concentration. In the region of diffusion controlled reaction, it was found that the rate is proportional to the square root of the enzyme concentration in the pellet. In addition, similarly to what was reported previously for a free enzyme,the reaction in a batch system was found to be approximately representable as simple first-order kinetics in which the rate constant was dependent on the initial substrate concentration. 
10781617	20000427	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The pgdA gene encodes for a peptidoglycan N-acetylglucosamine deacetylase in Streptococcus pneumoniae.	Analytical work on the fractionation of the glycan strands of Streptococcus pneumoniae cell wall has led to the observation that an unusually high proportion of hexosamine units (over 80% of the glucosamine and 10% of the muramic acid residues) was not N-acetylated, explaining the resistance of the peptidoglycan to the hydrolytic action of lysozyme, a muramidase that cleaves in the glycan backbone. A gene, pgdA, was identified as encoding for the peptidoglycan N-acetylglucosamine deacetylase A with amino acid sequence similarity to fungal chitin deacetylases and rhizobial NodB chitooligosaccharide deacetylases. Pneumococci in which pgdA was inactivated by insertion duplication mutagenesis produced fully N-acetylated glycan and became hypersensitive to exogenous lysozyme in the stationary phase of growth. The pgdA gene may contribute to pneumococcal virulence by providing protection against host lysozyme, which is known to accumulate in high concentrations at infection sites. 
1740440	19920225	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Myristoylation of proteins in the yeast secretory pathway.	Protein myristoylation was investigated in the yeast secretory pathway. Conditional secretory mutations were used to accumulate inteRmediaries in the pathway between the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi (sec 18, 20), within the Golgi (sec 7), and between the Golgi and plasma membrane (sec 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9). The accumulation of vesicles was paralleled by the enrichment of a defined subset of proteins modified either via ester or amide linkages to myristic acid: Myristoylated proteins of 21, 32, 49, 56, 75, and 136 kDa were enriched between the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi; proteins of 21, 32, 45, 56, 75, 136 kDa were enriched by blocks within the Golgi; and proteins of 18, 21, 32, 36, 49, 68, and 136 kDa were trapped in a myristoylated form by blocks between the Golgi and plasma membrane. This enrichment of myristoylated proteins was reversed upon returning the cells to the permissive temperature for secretion. The fatty acid was linked to the 21-kDa protein via a hydroxylamine-resistant amide linkage (N-myristoylation) and to the proteins of 24, 32, 49, 56, 68, 136 kDa via hydroxylamine-labile ester linkage (E-myristoylation). In addition, myristoylated proteins of 21, 56, and 136 kDa were glycosylated via amino linkages to asparagine. This suggests they are exposed to the lumen of the secretory pathway. Three proteins (24, 32, and 56) were E-myristoylated in the presence of protein synthesis inhibitors, indicating this modification can occur posttranslationally. After using cycloheximide to clear protein passengers from the secretory pathway the 21-, 32-, and 56-kDa proteins continued to accumulate in a myristoylated form when vesicular transport was blocked between the Golgi and plasma membrane. These data suggest that myristoylation occurs on a component of the secretory machinery rather than on a passenger protein. 
10654085	20000202	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Substrate specificity and gene expression of the amino-acid permeases in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	All known amino-acid permeases (AAPs) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae belong to a single family of homologous proteins. Genes of 15 AAPs were overexpressed in different strains, and the ability to take up one or more of the 20 common L-alpha-amino acids was studied in order to obtain a complete picture of the substrate specificity for these permeases. Radiolabelled amino-acid uptake measurements showed that Agp1p is a general permease for most uncharged amino acids (Ala, Gly, Ser, Thr, Cys, Met, Phe, Tyr, Ile, Leu, Val, Gln and Asn). Gnp1p, which is closely related to Agp1p, has a somewhat less-broad specificity, transporting Leu, Ser, Thr, Cys, Met, Gln and Asn, while Bap2p and Bap3p, which are also closely related to Agp1p, are able to transport Ile, Leu, Val, Cys, Met, Phe, Tyr and Trp. All four permeases are transcriptionally induced by an extracellular amino acid, but differ in expression with respect to the nitrogen source. On a non-repressive nitrogen source, AGP1 is induced, while GLN1, BAP2 and BAP3 are not. Except for Dip5p, which is a transporter for Glu, Asp, Gln, Asn, Ser, Ala and Gly, the rest of the permeases exhibit narrow specificity. Tat2p can take up Phe, Trp and Tyr; Put4p can transport Ala, Gly and Pro; while Can1p, Lyp1p and the previously uncharacterized Alp1p are specific for the cationic amino acids. These findings modify the prevalent view that S. cerevisiae only contains one general amino-acid permease, Gap1p, and a number of permeases that are specific for a single or a few amino acids. 
23737947	20130606	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D052061 	Glucanase induces filamentation of the fungal pathogen Candida albicans.	Candida albicans is the most common human fungal pathogen. Many organisms, including C. albicans, secrete glucanases under different environmental conditions. Here, we report a novel role for beta-1, 3- glucanase in inducing Candida albicans to form filaments at 22°C and enhancing filamentation at 37°C in nutrient-rich medium. Quorum sensing, the efg1-signaling and cek1 MAP kinase pathways are involved in this process. Our data suggest that the natural antifungal agent beta-glucanase may support morphologic transformation of Candida albicans at a wide range of ambient temperatures. 
21671092	20110615	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of arabinofuranosidase from the corn endophyte Acremonium zeae.	Acremonium zeae, one of the most prevalent fungal colonists of preharvest corn, possesses a suite of hemicellulolytic activities including xylanase, xylosidase, and arabinofuranosidase. Two enzymes with arabinofuranosidase activity were purified from cell-free culture supernatants of A. zeae grown on oat spelt xylan. A 47 kDa enzyme (AF47) was optimally active at 37 °C and pH 6.0, and had a specific activity for 4-nitrophenyl-α-L-arabinofuranoside (4NPA) of 6.2 U/mg. A 30 kDa enzyme (AF30) was optimally active at 50 °C and pH 4.5, and had a specific activity for 4NPA of 12.4 U/mg. AF47 hydrolyzed 4-nitrophenyl-β-D-xylopyranoside, 4-nitrophenyl-β-D-glucopyranoside, and 4-nitrophenyl-β-D-cellobioside, as well as producing reducing sugars from corn fiber, wheat, and oat spelt arabinoxylan. AF30 had little detectable activity on the 4-nitrophenyl substrates, except for 4NPA, but activity on arabinoxylans from corn fiber, wheat, and oat spelt was at least 7-fold higher than AF47, with specific activities of 109, 358, and 153 U/mg, respectively. A combination of the two enzymes released 61 and 88% of the total arabinose from corn fiber and wheat arabinoxylans. The arabinofuranosidases produced by A. zeae may have industrial application for the enzymatic hydrolysis of recalcitrant lignocellulosic feedstocks such as corn fiber and wheat straw. 
16915658	20060819	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Manipulating the phenolic acid content and digestibility of italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum) by vacuolar-targeted expression of a fungal ferulic acid esterase.	In grass cell walls, ferulic acid esters linked to arabinosyl residues in arabinoxylans play a key role in crosslinking hemicellulose. Although such crosslinks have a number of important roles in the cell wall, they also hinder the rate and extent of cell wall degradation by ruminant microbes and by fungal glycohydrolyase enzymes. Ferulic acid esterase (FAE) can release both monomeric and dimeric ferulic acids from arabinoxylans making the cell wall more susceptible to further enzymatic attack. Transgenic plants of Lolium multiflorum expressing a ferulic acid esterase gene from Aspergillus niger, targeted to the vacuole under a constitutive rice actin promoter, have been produced following microprojectile bombardment of embryogenic cell cultures. The level of FAE activity was found to vary with leaf age and was highest in young leaves. FAE expression resulted in the release of monomeric and dimeric ferulic acids from cell walls on cell death and this was enhanced severalfold by the addition of exogenous beta-1,4-endoxylanase. We also show that a number of plants expressing FAE had reduced levels of cell wall esterified monomeric and dimeric ferulates and increased in vitro dry-matter digestibility compared with nontransformed plants. 
15621422	20041229	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Fluorescent detection of beta-lactamase activity in living Escherichia coli cells via esterase supplementation.	The TEM-1 beta-lactamase protein fragment complementation assay was investigated for its applicability in affinity protein-based interaction studies in Escherichia coli, using an affibody-based model system. Results from co-transformation experiments showed that an ampicillin resistant phenotype was specifically associated with cognate affibody-target pairings. Attempts to monitor beta-lactamase complementation in vitro with the fluorescent beta-lactamase substrates CCF2/AM and CCF2 showed that E. coli lacks an esterase activity necessary for activation of the esterified and membrane-permeable CCF2/AM form of the substrate. Interestingly, supplementation of the assay reaction with a purified fungal lipase (cutinase) resulted in efficient activation of CCF2/AM in vitro. Further, periplasmic expression of cutinase allowed for fluorescent discrimination between beta-lactamase positive and negative living E. coli cells using the CCF2/AM substrate, which should open the way for novel applications for this prokaryotic host in protein interaction studies. 
11678858	20011027	Clin._Exp._Allergy	D003160 D016428 	Exposure to wheat allergen and fungal alpha-amylase in the homes of bakers.	Few data are available on exposure to occupational allergens in dwellings occupied by inhabitants with occupational exposure to allergens. In small bakeries working and living often takes place in the same building. It is possible that allergens from the bakery can be transported into the homes of the bakers, via the clothes or shoes of the baker. The aims of this study were to investigate exposure to occupational allergens, wheat and fungal alpha-amylase in the homes of bakers, and evaluate potential determinants of exposure. Sensitization in family members to occupational allergens was investigated in a small preliminary survey. Floor dust samples were collected in the homes of 34 bakers. Levels of wheat and fungal alpha-amylase allergens were determined in an extract of the dust samples. Blood samples were collected from bakers and their family members to determine the prevalence of sensitization to occupational allergens. The concentration of wheat and alpha-amylase allergens ranged from 38.9 to 172.4 microgeq/m(2) (GM), to 10.5-76.7 ngeq/m(2) (GM). Higher levels of dust and allergens were measured when the house could be reached directly through the bakery, and in houses with textile floor covers. Higher concentrations were also measured when bakers brought their work clothes and shoes into the house and when textiles from the bakery were laundered at home. Some family members appeared to be sensitized to wheat flour and alpha-amylase, but it cannot be excluded that they became sensitized because of their incidental presence in the bakery. Occupational allergens can be found in house dust from the homes of bakers and levels are associated with hygienic behaviour and distance to the bakery. 
1102915	19750101	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013487 	Lomofungin inhibition of allophanate hydrolase synthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The RNA polymerase inhibitor, lomofungin has been used to determine the half life of specific synthetic capacities (invertase and alpha-glucosidase) as well as that for gross protein synthesis. In both cases the studies conclude that cognate messenger RNAs decay with a half life of approximately 20 minutes. This antibiotic has been used to determine the half life of allophanate hydrolase specific synthetic capacity. We find that it decays with a half life of about three minutes; a value that agrees with the decay rates of allophanate hydrolase synthetic capacity following removal of inducer. These observations argue that mRNA may be metabolized by two separate routes in Saccharomyces. 
2050148	19910615	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Ribosome-bound EF-1 alpha-like protein of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The SUP2 (SUP35) omnipotent suppressor gene encodes the EF-1 alpha-like polypeptide, intimately involved in the control of translational ambiguity in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The present study is devoted to the immunological characterization of the Sup2 protein. The SUP2 gene was fused to the Escherichia coli lacZ gene and a polyclonal antibody against the corresponding Sup2--beta-galactosidase hybrid protein was obtained. This antibody identified a 79-kDa protein that was absent in those cells where the SUP2 gene was disrupted, and an abundance of this protein was observed in cells overexpressing the SUP2 gene. The localization of this protein was studied in subcellular fractionation experiments. The SUP2 gene product proved to be uniformly distributed throughout ribosome-enriched samples, i.e. free polysomes, crude microsomes and rough endoplasmic reticulum. It was not found in the cytoplasm and smooth endoplasmic reticulum. The SUP2-encoded protein was fully ribosome associated and less abundant than the ribosomal protein L3. Also, in a sucrose gradient, Sup2 preferentially cosedimented with the 40S ribosomal subunit, but not with the 60S subunit. The functional significance of this association is discussed. 
15388966	20040925	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Mode of AmyR binding to the CGGN8AGG sequence in the Aspergillus oryzae taaG2 promoter.	AmyR is a transcriptional activator in Aspergillus spp. necessary for induction of the amylolytic enzyme genes. It recognizes 5'-CGGN8CGG-3' conserved in a number of the amylolytic gene promoters, and in addition 5'-CGGAAATTTAA-3' in the A. oryzae alpha-amylase promoter. In this report, interaction of AmyR with the 5'-CGGAAATTTAA-3' type binding site in the Taka-amylase gene (taaG2) promoter was precisely characterized by DNase I footprinting analysis and electrophoretic mobility shift assay in vitro, and also by examination of the in vivo activity of the mutated promoters. The in vitro and in vivo analyses indicated that two AmyR molecules bind cooperatively to the 5'-CGGAAATTTAA-3' sequence by recognizing the CGG triplet at the 5'-end and the AGG triplet just downstream of the sequence. 
18483792	20080517	Exp._Appl._Acarol.	D003160 D016428 	Evaluation of Metarhizium anisopliae (Deuteromycota: Hyphomycetes) for control of broad mite Polyphagotarsonemus latus (Acari: Tarsonemidae) in mulberry.	A study on 12 entomopathogenic fungi for controlling broad mite (Polyphagotarsonemus latus (Banks)) in mulberry found that Metarhizium anisopliae CKM-048 was the most virulent strain in controlling both larvae and adult broad mites at the concentration of 2 x 10(8) conidia/ml. There was no ovicidal effect when tested with broad mite eggs. Median lethal concentrations (LC(50)) of M. anisopliae in killing larvae and adults were 8.7 x 10(6) and 1.3 x 10(7 )conidia/ml, respectively. Median lethal times (LT(50)) of larvae and adults were 2.4 and 3.8 days, respectively, at the concentration of 2 x 10(8) conidia/ml. The fungus was found to produce protease and chitinase. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies were done to monitor the infection steps of the fungus on broad mites. A greenhouse test on mulberry trees revealed that M. anisopliae could reduce the broad mite population within 4 days after treatment. However, after 7 days, its efficacy was decreased significantly. 
20390107	20100415	Mar_Drugs	D016428 D016454 	Chitins and chitosans as immunoadjuvants and non-allergenic drug carriers.	Due to the fact that some individuals are allergic to crustaceans, the presumed relationship between allergy and the presence of chitin in crustaceans has been investigated. In vivo, chitin is part of complex structures with other organic and inorganic compounds: in arthropods chitin is covalently linked to proteins and tanned by quinones, in fungi it is covalently linked to glucans, while in bacteria chitin is diversely combined according to Gram(+/-) classification. On the other hand, isolated, purified chitin is a plain polysaccharide that, at the nano level, presents itself as a highly associated structure, recently refined in terms of regularity, nature of bonds, crystallinity degree and unusual colloidal behavior. Chitins and modified chitins exert a number of beneficial actions, i.e., (i) they stimulate macrophages by interacting with receptors on the macrophage surface that mediate the internalization of chitin particles to be degraded by lysozyme and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase (such as Nod-like, Toll-like, lectin, Dectin-1, leukotriene 134 and mannose receptors); (ii) the macrophages produce cytokines and other compounds that confer non-specific host resistance against bacterial and viral infections, and anti-tumor activity; (iii) chitin is a strong Th1 adjuvant that up-regulates Th1 immunity induced by heat-killed Mycobacterium bovis, while down- regulating Th2 immunity induced by mycobacterial protein; (iv) direct intranasal application of chitin microparticles into the lung was also able to significantly down-regulate allergic response to Dermatophagoids pteronyssinus and Aspergillus fumigatus in a murine model of allergy; (v) chitin microparticles had a beneficial effect in preventing and treating histopathologic changes in the airways of asthmatic mice; (vi) authors support the fact that chitin depresses the development of adaptive type 2 allergic responses. Since the expression of chitinases, chitrotriosidase and chitinase-like proteins is greatly amplified during many infections and diseases, the common feature of chitinase-like proteins and chitinase activity in all organisms appears to be the biochemical defense of the host. Unfortunately, conceptual and methodological errors are present in certain recent articles dealing with chitin and allergy, i.e., (1) omitted consideration of mammalian chitinase and/or chitotriosidase secretion, accompanied by inactive chitinase-like proteins, as an ancestral defensive means against invasion, capable to prevent the insurgence of allergy; (2) omitted consideration of the fact that the mammalian organism recognizes more promptly the secreted water soluble chitinase produced by a pathogen, rather than the insoluble and well protected chitin within the pathogen itself; (3) superficial and incomplete reports and investigations on chitin as an allergen, without mentioning the potent allergen from crustacean flesh, tropomyosine; (4) limited perception of the importance of the chemical/biochemical characteristics of the isolated chitin or chitosan for the replication of experiments and optimization of results; and (5) lack of interdisciplinarity. There is quite a large body of knowledge today on the use of chitosans as biomaterials, and more specifically as drug carriers for a variety of applications: the delivery routes being the same as those adopted for the immunological studies. Said articles, that devote attention to the safety and biocompatibility aspects, never reported intolerance or allergy in individuals and animals, even when the quantities of chitosan used in single experiments were quite large. Therefore, it is concluded that crab, shrimp, prawn and lobster chitins, as well as chitosans of all grades, once purified, should not be considered as "crustacean derivatives", because the isolation procedures have removed proteins, fats and other contaminants to such an extent as to allow them to be classified as chemicals regardless of their origin. 
8549811	19960102	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	A sequence analysis of the beta-glucosidase sub-family B.	This computational study is a summary of structural properties of the beta-glucosidase subfamily B. Computations were carried out using GCG package programs. All sequences used in this analysis were taken from the protein data bank. The multialignment and the phylogenetic tree of the beta-glucosidase sub-family B are shown. The conserved patterns: DGP, GRNFE, DPYL, KHF, SDW, GLD, VLLKN in the N-terminal region and FGYGLSY in the C-terminal part should be pointed out. C-terminal parts of the Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens and Ruminoccocus albus beta-glucosidase sequences can be aligned to the N-terminal region of the other members of the subfamily. A crossed homology model in sub-family B beta-glucosidases is described. 
24425133	20140116	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Xylan-hydrolysing enzymes from thermophilic and mesophilic fungi.	Screening of 40 mesophilic and 13 thermophilic fungi indicated that enzyme activities capable of degrading oat spelt xylan extensively were produced by only a few of the mesophilic species investigated. The relatively low degree of hydrolysis effected by the enzymes from thermophilic organisms could be explained, in part, by their lack of β-xylosidase. Several strains of Aspergillus awamori and Aspergillus phoenicis were notable in producing high xylanase and β-xylosidase and low protease activities. Of the fungl tested, 13 produced activities capable of removing O-acetyl, arabinosyl, 4-O-methylglucuronyl, feruloyl and coumaroyl substituents from the backbone of xylan polysaccharides as well as endo-1,4-β-D-xylanase and β-1,4-xylosidase. When the growth medium contained oat spelt xylan as carbon source, higher levels of xylanase, β-xylosidase and acetyl xylan esterase were found than in cultures containing meadow fescue grass but the latter were richer in ferulic acid and coumaric acid esterases and 4-O-methylglucuronidase. No single organism or carbon source used was capabie of producing high levels of all the debranching enzymes as well as high levels of enzymes capable of cleaving the glycosidic linkages of the xylan backbone. The best ballnce of enzymes was obtained in cultures of A. awamori IMI 142717 and NRRL 2276 and A. phoenicis IMI 214827. Either of these would be suitable for strain improvement studies.  
6772150	19800201	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Partial purification and characterization of a new intracellular beta-glucosidase of Trichoderma reesei.	A new intracellular beta-glucosidase was isolated from Trichoderma reesei. It was sequentially purified by (NH4)2SO4 precipitation and chromatography and rechromatography on Sephadex G-150. The enzyme has a mol.wt. of 98 000, optimal activity at pH 6.5, pI 4.4 and Km values of 6.7 mM and 3.3 mM for sophorose and cellobiose respectively. Possible functions of the enzyme may be regulation of cellulase induction and/or to serve as a proenzyme. 
17309295	20070221	Biomacromolecules	D016428 D013485 	Temperature impacts the multiple attack action of amylases.	The action pattern of several amylases was studied at 35, 50, and 70 degrees C using potato amylose, a soluble (Red Starch) and insoluble (cross-linked amylose) chromophoric substrate. With potato amylose as substrate, Bacillus stearothermophilus alpha-amylase (BStA) and porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase displayed a high degree of multiple attack (DMA, i.e., the number of bonds broken during the lifetime of an enzyme-substrate complex minus one), the fungal alpha-amylase from Aspergillus oryzae a low DMA, and the alpha-amylases from B. licheniformis, Thermoactinomyces vulgaris, B. amyloliquifaciens, and B. subtilis an intermediate DMA. These data are discussed in relation to structural properties of the enzymes. The level of multiple attack (LMA), based on the relation between the drop in iodine binding of amylose and the increase in total reducing value, proved to be a good alternative for DMA measurements. The LMA of the endo-amylases increased with temperature to a degree depending on the amylase. In contrast, BStA showed a decreased LMA when temperature was raised. Furthermore, different enzymes had different activities on Red Starch and cross-linked amylose. Hence, next to the temperature, the action pattern of alpha-amylases is influenced by structural parameters of the starch substrate. 
16461646	20060208	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of ammonia production by Colletotrichum gloeosporioides on pelB activation, pectate lyase secretion, and fruit pathogenicity.	The accumulation of ammonia and associated tissue alkalinization predispose avocado fruit to attack by Colletotrichum gloeosporioides. Secretion of ammonia by C. gloeosporioides in the presence of KNO3 was induced by decreasing the pH from 7.0 to 4.0. When the fungus was grown at pH 4.0 or 6.0 in the absence of a nitrogen source, ammonia did not accumulate, and neither pelB (encoding pectate lyase) transcription nor pectate lyase secretion was detected. Under these nitrogen starvation conditions, only transcriptional activation of areA, which encodes the global nitrogen regulator, was detected. pelB transcription and pectate lyase secretion were both detected when C. gloeosporioides was grown at pH 6.0 in the presence of ammonia accumulated from different nitrogen sources. The early accumulation of ammonia induced early pelB expression and pectate lyase secretion. As the external pH increased from 4.0 to 6.0, transcripts of pac1, the C. gloeosporioides pacC homolog, also could be detected. Nit mutants of C. gloeosporioides, which cannot utilize KNO3 as a nitrogen source, did not secrete ammonia, alkalinize the medium, or secrete pectate lyase. If Nit mutants were grown at pH 6.0 in the presence of glutamate, then pectate lyase secretion was induced. Infiltration of 0.1 M ammonium hydroxide at pH 10 into ripening avocado fruits enhanced the activation of quiescent infection and symptom development by C. gloeosporioides. These results suggest that ambient pH alkalinization resulting from ammonia accumulation and the availability of ammonia as a nitrogen source independently regulate pelB expression, pectate lyase secretion, and virulence of C. gloeosporioides. These data suggest that alkalinization during C. gloeosporioides infection is important for its transformation from the quiescent biotrophic stage to the necrotrophic stage of fungal colonization in the fruit host. 
988467	19760701	Mikrobiologiia	D004740 D016428 	[Biogenesis of cellulolytic enzymes by Trichoderma ligorum on media with "inductor"].	Identical distribution of C2- and Cx-cellulase activities of enzyme complexes produced by Trichoderma lignorum on a medium with lactose, a soluble "inductor", and on a medium with cellulose was found by means of disc elestrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel. The maximum rate of synthesis of cellulases on the medium with lactose was registered during the highest deceleration, and even complete cessation, of the fungal growth. During this phase, only one electrophoretically homogeneous cellulase component with Rf of 0.44 possessing all types of the cellulase activity is present in the cultural broth. In the course of growth of the fungus on cellulose after 48 hours, also only one electrophoretically homogeneous component with Rf of 0.44 was found in the cultural broth when the rate of the substrate degradation was highest. The appearance of minor protein components with the activity of cellulase at later stages of cultivation after cessation of the fungal growth is supposed to be caused by modification of the main cellulase component with Rf of 0.44 by the growth medium. 
22980799	20120918	Food_Chem	D003160 D016428 	Enzymatic bioconversion of citrus hesperidin by Aspergillus sojae naringinase: enhanced solubility of hesperetin-7-O-glucoside with in vitro inhibition of human intestinal maltase, HMG-CoA reductase, and growth of Helicobacter pylori.	Hesperetin-7-O-glucoside (Hes-7-G) was produced by the enzymatic conversion of hesperidin by Aspergillus sojae naringinase due to the removal of the terminal rhamnose. Extracts from orange juice and peel containing the hesperidin were so treated by this enzyme that the hesperidin could also be converted to Hes-7-G. The solubility of Hes-7-G in 10% ethanol was enhanced 55- and 88-fold over those of hesperidin and hesperetin, respectively, which may make Hes-7-G more bioavailable. Hes-7-G was 1.7- and 2.4-fold better than hesperidin and hesperetin, respectively, in the inhibition of human intestinal maltase. Hes-7-G was more potent by 2- and 4-fold than hesperidin in the inhibition of human HMG-CoA reductase. Additionally, Hes-7-G exhibited more effective inhibition of the growth of Helicobacter pylori than hesperetin, while its effectiveness was similar to that of hesperidin. Therefore, the results suggest that bioconverted Hes-7-G is more effective and bioavailable than hesperidin, as it has enhanced inhibitory and solubility properties. 
11051094	20001029	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Affinity purification and characterization of a cutinase from the fungal plant pathogen Monilinia fructicola (Wint.) honey.	Trifluoromethyl ketones (TFK) are potent inhibitors of a variety of serine hydrolases. The TFK inhibitor, 3-(4-mercaptobutylthio)-1,1,1-trifluoro-2-propanone (MBTFP), was found to competitively inhibit cutinase activity (I50 = 9.4 x 10(-3)) from the fungal plant pathogen Monilinia fructicola and to serve as an effective affinity ligand for the purification of cutinases from culture filtrates. The TFK inhibitors, 3-n-octylthio-1,1,1-trifluoro-2-propanone (OTFP) and 3-n-pentylthio-1,1,1-trifluoro-2-propanone (PTFP), also inhibited cutinase activity with I50 values of 1.6 x 10(-6) and 2.3 x 10(-4) M, respectively. Buffer containing OTFP was the strongest eluant for cutinases of M. fructicola and provided the best purification factor and yield, although buffers containing OTFP, detergent, and salt were found to be effective for eluting cutinases bound to MBTFP-Sepharose. Buffer containing 0.5% Triton X-100 also selectively eluted cutinases from the affinity column. Two-dimensional electrophoretic analysis by SDS-PAGE and isoelectric focusing of the affinity-purified cutinase fraction indicated activity associated with proteins of pI 8.2 and molecular masses of approximately 18.6 and 20.8 kDa. These proteins hydrolyzed [3H]cutin and artificial substrates such as p-nitrophenylbutyrate and related esters, typical of other cutinases, but differ from previously characterized cutinases in molecular mass. The two low-molecular-weight proteins resolved by 2-D gel electrophoresis were subjected to in-gel digestion with Lys-C and the resulting peptide fragments were separated by Microbore-HPLC. The amino acid sequences of several internal peptide fragments had high homology with cutinase sequences from other fungi, particularly the plant pathogen Botrytis cinerea. Our study illustrates the potential of TFK ligands for the affinity purification of cutinases and indicates that the cutinases from M. fructicola have novel features warranting further study. 
23022439	20121002	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Glutathione- and glutaredoxin-dependent reduction of methionine sulfoxide reductase A.	A natural fusion occurring between two tandemly repeated glutaredoxin (Grx) modules and a methionine sulfoxide reductase A (MsrA) has been detected in Gracilaria gracilis. Using an in vivo yeast complementation assay and in vitro activity measurements, we demonstrated that this fusion enzyme was able to reduce methionine sulfoxide into methionine using glutathione as a reductant. Consistently, a poplar cytosolic MsrA can be regenerated in vitro by glutaredoxins with an efficiency comparable to that of thioredoxins, but using a different mechanism. We hypothesize that the glutathione/glutaredoxin system could constitute an evolutionary conserved alternative regeneration system for MsrA. 
21281115	20110202	Phytopathology	D016428 D013485 	Biocontrol activity and primed systemic resistance by compost water extracts against anthracnoses of pepper and cucumber.	We investigated direct and indirect effects of compost water extracts (CWEs) from Iljuk-3, Iljuk-7, Shinong-8, and Shinong-9 for the control of anthracnoses caused by Colletotrichum coccodes on pepper and C. orbiculare on cucumber. All tested CWEs significantly (P < 0.05) inhibited in vitro conidial germination and appressorium formation of the fungal pathogens; however, DL-β-amino-n-butyric acid (BABA) failed to inhibit the conidial development of the pathogens. Direct treatments of the CWEs and BABA on pepper and cucumber leaves at 1 and 3 days before or after inoculation significantly (P < 0.05) reduced anthracnose severities; Iljuk-3, Shinong-9, and BABA for pepper and Iljuk-7 for cucumber had more protective activities than curative activities. In addition, root treatment of CWEs suppressed anthracnoses on the plants by the pathogens; however, CWE treatment on lower leaves failed to reduce the diseases on the upper leaves of the plants. The CWE root treatments enhanced not only the expression of the pathogenesis-related (PR) genes CABPR1, CABGLU, CAChi2, CaPR-4, CAPO1, and CaPR-10 in pepper and PR1-1a, PR-2, PR-3, and APOX in cucumber but also the activity of β-1,3-glucanase, chitinase, and peroxidase and the generation of hydrogen peroxide in pepper and cucumber under pathogen-inoculated conditions. However, the CWE treatments failed to induce the plant responses under pathogen-free conditions. These results indicated that the CWEs had direct effects, reducing anthracnoses by C. coccodes on pepper leaves and C. orbiculare on cucumber leaves through protective and curative effects. In addition, CWE root treatments could induce systemic resistance in the primed state against pathogens on plant leaves that enhanced PR gene expression, defense-related enzyme production, and hydrogen peroxide generation rapidly and effectively immediately after pathogen infection. Thus, the CWEs might suppress anthracnoses on leaves of both pepper and cucumber through primed (priming-mediated) systemic resistance. 
23220193	20121211	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 	The structure of a bacterial cellobiohydrolase: the catalytic core of the Thermobifida fusca family GH6 cellobiohydrolase Cel6B.	Cellulases, glycoside hydrolases that catalyze the degradation of cellulose, are classified as either endoglucanases or cellobiohydrolases (CBHs) based on their architecture and mode of action on the cellulose. CBHs bind the cellulose chain in a more or less closed tunnel and cleave off cellobiose units processively from one end of the cellulosic polymer, while endoglucanases have their active sites in a more or less open cleft and show a higher tendency to cut bonds internally in the polymer. The CBH Cel6A (also called CBH2) from the ascomycete Hypocrea jecorina has a much shorter substrate-binding tunnel and seems less processive than the CBH Cel7A (CBH1), from the same fungus. Here, we present the X-ray crystal structure of the catalytic domain of the CBH Cel6B, also called E3, from the soil bacterium Thermobifida fusca, both in its apo form and co-crystallized with cellobiose. The enzyme structure reveals that the Cel6B enzyme has a much longer substrate-binding site than its fungal GH6 counterparts. The tunnel is comparable in length to that of GH7 CBHs. In the ligand structure with cellobiose, the tunnel exit is completely closed by a 13-residue loop not present in fungal GH6 enzymes. The loop needs to be displaced to allow cellobiose product release for a processive action by the enzyme. When ligand is absent, seven of these residues are not visible in the electron density and the tunnel exit is open. 
23040386	20121009	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a novel thermostable β-glucosidase from a metagenomic library of termite gut.	A novel β-glucosidase-encoding gene, bgl-gs1, which was identified from a positive fosmid clone in a metagenomic library of the gut of Globitermes brachycerastes, [corrected] encodes a 455 amino acid polypeptide that contains a catalytic domain belonging to glycoside hydrolase family 1 (GH1). It was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) and the expression product showed a molecular mass of ∼51.7 kDa by SDS-PAGE. The optimal temperature and pH for the activity of the purified recombinant enzyme Bgl-gs1 with p-nitrophenyl-β-D-glucoside (pNPG) were 90°C and 6.0, respectively. The specific activities of Bgl-gs1 on pNPG and salicin were 110 and 14U/mg of protein, respectively, and its K(m) values were 0.18 and 2.59 mM, respectively. The residual activity of Bgl-gs1 was maintained above 70% after the recombinant enzyme was incubated at 75°C and pH 6.0 for 2h, and its half-life at 90°C was approximately 1h in the presence of 4mM pNPG. Bgl-gs1 showed synergistic effect with either a crude enzyme mixture of the fungal strain Trichoderma reesei Rut-C30 or a fusion protein (TcE1) created from the cellobiohydrolase cbh1 gene of T. reesei and endoglucanase from Acidothermus cellulolyticus; 87 and 137% increases in hydrolytic efficiency were noted on microcrystalline cellulose, respectively. These results suggest that the thermostable β-glucosidase Bgl-gs1 is a likely candidate for industrial applications. 
23100735	20121027	Indian_J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Cloning, characterization and expression of the chitinase gene of Enterobacter sp. NRG4.	A chitinase producing bacterium Enterobacter sp. NRG4, previously isolated in our laboratory, has been reported to have a wide range of applications such as anti-fungal activity, generation of fungal protoplasts and production of chitobiose and N-acetyl D-glucosamine from swollen chitin. In this paper, the gene coding for Enterobacter chitinase has been cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The structural portion of the chitinase gene comprised of 1686 bp. The deduced amino acid sequence of chitinase has high degree of homology (99.0%) with chitinase from Serratia marcescens. The recombinant chitinase was purified to near homogeneity using His-Tag affinity chromatography. The purified recombinant chitinase had a specific activity of 2041.6 U mg(-1). It exhibited similar properties pH and temperature optima of 5.5 and 45°C respectively as that of native chitinase. Using swollen chitin as a substrate, the K(m), k(cat) and catalytic efficiency (k(cat)/K(m)) values of recombinant chitinase were found to be 1.27 mg ml(-1), 0.69 s(-1) and 0.54 s(-1)M(-1) respectively. Like native chitinase, the recombinant chitinase produced medicinally important N-acetyl D-glucosamine and chitobiose from swollen chitin and also inhibited the growth of many fungi. 
24031191	20130914	Braz._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Production of endoglucanase by the native strains of Streptomyces isolates in submerged fermentation.	Cellulase is a complex enzyme system, commercially produced by filamentous fungi under solid-state and submerged cultivation. It has wide applicability in textile, food and beverage industry for effective saccharification process. In this study, cellulolytic enzyme activity, particularly endoglucanase of 26 Streptomyces strains isolated from garden soil was examined, including two isolates selected on the basis of potential cellulolytic activity on Bennett's agar medium. To enhance the endoglucanase formation in broth culture, different conditions including carbon and nitrogen sources, and growth conditions were tested. The maximum endoglucanase activity (11.25-11.90 U/mL) was achieved within 72-88 h in fermentation medium containing Tween-80, followed by phosphate sources. Both cellulolytic Streptomyces isolates gave almost equal quantity of enzyme in all trials. However the effect of medium ingredients on endoglucanase induction diverged with strains in some extent.  
12713539	20030426	Plant_J.	D016428 D013486 	Characterization of a tomato protein that inhibits a xyloglucan-specific endoglucanase.	A basic, 51 kDa protein was purified from suspension-cultured tomato and shown to inhibit the hydrolytic activity of a xyloglucan-specific endoglucanase (XEG) from the fungus Aspergillus aculeatus. The tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) protein, termed XEG inhibitor protein (XEGIP), inhibits XEG activity by forming a 1 : 1 protein:protein complex with a Ki approximately 0.5 nm. To our knowledge, XEGIP is the first reported proteinaceous inhibitor of any endo-beta-1,4-glucanase, including the cellulases. The cDNA encoding XEGIP was cloned and sequenced. Database analysis revealed homology with carrot extracellular dermal glycoprotein (EDGP), which has a putative role in plant defense. XEGIP also has sequence similarity to ESTs from a broad range of plant species, suggesting that XEGIP-like genes are widely distributed in the plant kingdom. Although Southern analysis detected only a single XEGIP gene in tomato, at least five other XEGIP-like tomato sequences have been identified. Similar small families of XEGIP-like sequences are present in other plants, including Arabidopsis. XEGIP also has some sequence similarity to two previously characterized proteins, basic globulin 7S protein from soybean and conglutin gamma from lupin. Several amino acids in the XEGIP sequence, notably 8 of the 12 cysteines, are generally conserved in all the XEGIP-like proteins we have encountered, suggesting a fundamental structural similarity. Northern analysis revealed that XEGIP is widely expressed in tomato vegetative tissues and is present in expanding and maturing fruit, but is downregulated during ripening. 
17149640	20061207	Plant_Cell_Rep.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and functional expression of the gene encoding an inhibitor against Aspergillus flavus alpha-amylase, a novel seed lectin from Lablab purpureus (Dolichos lablab).	Maize is one of the more important agricultural crops in the world and, under certain conditions, prone to attack from pathogenic fungi. One of these, Aspergillus flavus, produces toxic and carcinogenic metabolites, called aflatoxins, as byproducts of its infection of maize kernels. The alpha-amylase of A. flavus is known to promote aflatoxin production in the endosperm of these infected kernels, and a 36-kDa protein from the Lablab purpureus, denoted AILP, has been shown to inhibit alpha-amylase production and the growth of A. flavus. Here, we report the isolation of six full-length labAI genes encoding AILP and a detailed analysis of the activities of the encoded proteins. Each of the six labAI genes encoded sequences of 274 amino acids, with the deduced amino acid sequences showing approximately 95-99% identity. The sequences are similar to those of lectin members of a legume lectin-arcelin-alpha-amylase inhibitor family reported to function in plant resistance to insect pests. The labAI genes did not show any of the structures characteristic of conserved structures identified in alpha-amylase inhibitors to date. The recombinant proteins of labAI-1 and labAI-2 agglutinated human red blood cells and inhibited A. flavus alpha-amylase in a manner similar to that shown by AILP. These data indicate that labAI genes are a new class of lectin members in legume seeds and that their proteins have both lectin and alpha-amylase inhibitor activity. These results are a valuable contribution to our knowledge of plant-pathogen interactions and will be applicable for developing protocols aimed at controlling A. flavus infection. 
3025649	19861201	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Structure of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae HO gene and analysis of its upstream regulatory region.	The HO gene product of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a site-specific endonuclease that initiates mating type interconversion. We have determined the nucleotide sequence of a 3,129-base-pair (bp) segment containing HO. The segment contains a single long open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 586 amino acids, which has unusual (unbiased) codon usage and is preceded by 762 bp of upstream region. The predicted HO protein is basic (16% lysine and arginine) and is calculated to have a secondary structure that is 30% helical. The corresponding transcript is initiated approximately 50 nucleotides prior to the presumed initiation codon. Insertion of an Escherichia coli lacZ gene fragment into the putative HO coding segment inactivated HO and formed a hybrid HO-lacZ gene whose beta-galactosidase activity was regulated by the mating type locus in the same manner as HO (repressed by a 1-alpha 2). Upstream regions of 1,360 and 762 bp conferred strong repression; 436 bp led to partial constitutivity and 301 bp to full constitutivity. Thus, DNA sequences that confer repression of HO by a1-alpha 2 are at least 250 nucleotides upstream of the transcription start point and are within 436 nucleotides of the HO initiation codon. The progressive loss of repression suggests that both the -762 to -436 and the -436 to -301 intervals contain sites for regulation by a1-alpha 2. The HO gene contains two distinct regions that promote autonomous replication of plasmids in S. cerevisiae. These regions contain sequences that are homologous to the two conserved sequences that are associated with ARS activity. 
22204630	20111230	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression of Pycnoporus cinnabarinus cellobiose dehydrogenase in Pichia pastoris and involvement in saccharification processes.	Cellobiose dehydrogenase (CDH) is an extracellular hemoflavoenzyme produced by lignocellulose-degrading fungi including Pycnoporus cinnabarinus. We investigated the cellulolytic system of P. cinnabarinus, focusing on the involvement of CDH in the deconstruction of lignocellulosic biomass. First, P. cinnabarinus growth conditions were optimized for CDH production. Following growth under cellulolytic conditions, the main components secreted were cellulases, xylanases and CDH. To investigate the contribution of P. cinnabarinus secretome in saccharification processes, the Trichoderma reesei enzymatic cocktail was supplemented with the P. cinnabarinus secretome. A significant enhancement of the degradation of wheat straw was observed with (i) the production of a large amount of gluconic acid, (ii) increased hemicellulose degradation, and (iii) increased overall degradation of the lignocellulosic material. P. cinnabarinus CDH was heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris to obtain large amounts of pure enzyme. In a bioreactor, the recombinant CDH (rCDH) expression level reached 7800 U/L. rCDH exhibited values of biochemical parameters similar to those of the natural enzyme, and was able to bind cellulose despite the absence of a carbohydrate-binding module (CBM). Following supplementation of purified rCDH to T. reesei enzymatic cocktail, formation of gluconic acid and increased hemicellulose degradation were observed, thus confirming the previous results observed with P. cinnabarinus secretome. We demonstrate that CDH offers an attractive tool for saccharification process enhancement due to gluconic acid production from raw lignocellulosic material. 
23002221	20120925	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D052061 	Fur activates expression of the 2-oxoglutarate oxidoreductase genes (oorDABC) in Helicobacter pylori.	Helicobacter pylori is a highly successful pathogen that colonizes the gastric mucosa of ∼50% of the world's population. Within this colonization niche, the bacteria encounter large fluctuations in nutrient availability. As such, it is critical that this organism regulate expression of key metabolic enzymes so that they are present when environmental conditions are optimal for growth. One such enzyme is the 2-oxoglutarate (α-ketoglutarate) oxidoreductase (OOR), which catalyzes the conversion of α-ketoglutarate to succinyl coenzyme A (succinyl-CoA) and CO(2). Previous studies from our group suggested that the genes that encode the OOR are activated by iron-bound Fur (Fe-Fur); microarray analysis showed that expression of oorD, oorA, and oorC was altered in a fur mutant strain of H. pylori. The goal of the present work was to more thoroughly characterize expression of the oorDABC genes in H. pylori as well as to define the role of Fe-Fur in this process. Here we show that these four genes are cotranscribed as an operon and that expression of the operon is decreased in a fur mutant strain. Transcriptional start site mapping and promoter analysis revealed the presence of a canonical extended -10 element but a poorly conserved -35 element upstream of the +1. Additionally, we identified a conserved Fur binding sequence ∼130 bp upstream of the transcriptional start site. Transcriptional analysis using promoter fusions revealed that this binding sequence was required for Fe-Fur-mediated activation. Finally, fluorescence anisotropy assays indicate that Fe-Fur specifically bound this Fur box with a relatively high affinity (dissociation constant [K(d)] = 200 nM). These findings provide novel insight into the genetic regulation of a key metabolic enzyme and add to our understanding of the diverse roles Fur plays in gene regulation in H. pylori. 
15998406	20050707	New_Phytol.	D016428 	Ectopic expression of the mycorrhiza-specific chitinase gene Mtchit 3-3 in Medicago truncatula root-organ cultures stimulates spore germination of glomalean fungi.	Expression of Mtchit 3-3, a class III chitinase gene, is specifically induced by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi in roots of the model legume Medicago truncatula and its transcripts accumulate in cells containing arbuscules. Agrobacterium rhizogenes-transformed roots and root-organ cultures of M. truncatula were used to study effects of Mtchit 3-3 on AM fungi. * This work provides evidence for enzymatic activity of the Mtchit 3-3 gene product and shows with promoter:gus fusions that a 2 kb fragment located 5' upstream from the translational start codon of Mtchit 3-3 is sufficient to confer arbuscule-dependent gene expression. By fusing the Mtchit 3-3 coding region to the CaMV 35S promoter the expression pattern was disrupted. Surprisingly, disruption stimulated spore germination of Glomus intraradices and Glomus constrictum, and in the case of G. intraradices resulted in a higher probability of root colonization and spore formation. However, no effect on the abundance of arbuscules within colonized roots became apparent. These observations demonstrate that disruption of the tight arbuscule-dependent expression pattern of Mtchit 3-3 has effects on the early interaction between roots and AM fungi. 
10849827	20000613	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulase production of Trichoderma reesei Rut C 30 using steam-pretreated spruce. Hydrolytic potential of cellulases on different substrates.	Various techniques are available for the conversion of lignocellulosics to fuel ethanol. During the last decade processes based on enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose have been investigated more extensively, showing good yield on both hardwood and softwood. The cellulase production of a filamentous fungi, Trichoderma reesei Rut C 30, was examined on carbon sources obtained after steam pretreatment of spruce. These materials were washed fibrous steam-pretreated spruce (SPS), and hemicellulose hydrolysate. The hemicellulose hydrolysate contained, besides water-soluble carbohydrates, lignin and sugar degradation products, which were formed during the pretreatment and proved to be inhibitory to microorganisms. Experiments were performed in a 4-L laboratory fermentor. The hydrolytic capacity of the produced enzyme solutions was compared with two commercially available enzyme preparations, Celluclast and Iogen Cellulase, on SPS, washed SPS, and Solka Floc cellulose powder. There was no significant difference among the different enzymes produced by T. reesei Rut C 30. However, the conversion of cellulose using these enzymes was higher than that obtained with Iogen or Celluclast cellulases using steam-pretreated spruce as substrate. 
1730409	19920101	Genes_Dev.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Analysis of G alpha 4, a G-protein subunit required for multicellular development in Dictyostelium.	The Dictyostelium G alpha 4 gene encodes a G-protein alpha subunit that is primarily expressed during the multicellular stages of development. g alpha 4 null mutants, created by gene disruption, show aberrant morphological differentiation, reduced levels of prespore gene expression, and a loss of the ability to produce spores. These developmental phenotypes can be rescued by complementation with the wild-type gene. Cells that overexpress the G alpha 4 gene (G alpha 4HC) also show reduced spore production but display an aberrant morphological phenotype distinct from that of g alpha 4 cells. The g alpha 4 phenotype can be partially rescued by the presence of wild-type or G alpha 4HC cells in chimeric organisms, suggesting that G alpha 4-expressing cells produce an intercellular signal that is essential for multicellular development. 
11376609	20010530	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 	Enzymic alpha-galactosylation of a cyclic glucotetrasaccharide derived from alternan.	Alternanase catalyzes the hydrolysis of alternan, an alpha-(1-->3)-alpha-(1-->6)-D-glucan produced by Leuconostoc mesenteroides, resulting in the formation of a cyclic tetramer cyclo -->3)-alpha-D-Glcp-(1-->6)-alpha-D-Glcp-(1-->(2) (cGlc(4)). Two alpha-galactosidases, one from coffee bean and the other produced by a fungus, currently described as Thermomyces lanuginosus, were found to catalyze an efficient 6-O-alpha-D-galactopyranosylation of cGlc(4). The attachment of a nonreducing alpha-D-galactopyranosyl residue to the cGlc(4) molecule opens new possibilities for future applications of the cyclic tetramer, since the D-galactopyranosyl residue can be easily modified by D-galactose oxidase to introduce a reactive aldehyde group. The results also extend our knowledge about the synthetic potential of T. lanuginosus alpha-galactosidase. 
4811548	19740201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Cellulase localization in hyphae of Achlya ambisexualis.	Cellulase (EC 3.2.1.4; beta-1, 4-glucan glucanohydrolase) was localized at the ultrastructural level and found to occur in dictyosomes and vesicles, around the periphery of unidentified storage bodies, between the plasmalemma and the cell wall, and on the outer surface of the cell wall in the male strain (E87) of Achlya ambisexualis after treatment with the sex hormone antheridiol. 
19423335	20090509	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Bacterial community composition and chitinase gene diversity of vermicompost with antifungal activity.	Bacterial communities and chitinase gene diversity of vermicompost (VC) were investigated to clarify the influence of earthworms on the inhibition of plant pathogenic fungi in VC. The spore germination of Fusarium moniliforme was reduced in VC aqueous extracts prepared from paper sludge and dairy sludge (fresh sludge, FS). The bacterial communities were examined by culture-dependent and -independent analyses. Unique clones selected from 16S rRNA libraries of FS and VC on the basis of restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) fell into the major lineages of the domain bacteria Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Verrucomicrobia, Actinobacteria and Firmicutes. Among culture isolates, Actinobacteria dominated in VC, while almost equal numbers of Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria were present in FS. Analysis of chitinolytic isolates and chitinase gene diversity revealed that chitinolytic bacterial communities were enriched in VC. Populations of bacteria that inhibited plant fungal pathogens were higher in VC than in FS and particularly chitinolytic isolates were most active against the target fungi. 
17430975	20070414	Protein_Eng._Des._Sel.	D016428 D013486 	Molecular modeling suggests induced fit of Family I carbohydrate-binding modules with a broken-chain cellulose surface.	Cellobiohydrolases are the most effective single component of fungal cellulase systems; however, their molecular mode of action on cellulose is not well understood. These enzymes act to detach and hydrolyze cellodextrin chains from crystalline cellulose in a processive manner, and the carbohydrate-binding module (CBM) is thought to play an important role in this process. Understanding the interactions between the CBM and cellulose at the molecular level can assist greatly in formulating selective mutagenesis experiments to confirm the function of the CBM. Computational molecular dynamics was used to investigate the interaction of the CBM from Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I with a model of the (1,0,0) cellulose surface modified to display a broken chain. Initially, the CBM was located in different positions relative to the reducing end of this break, and during the simulations it appeared to translate freely and randomly across the cellulose surface, which is consistent with its role in processivity. Another important finding is that the reducing end of a cellulose chain appears to induce a conformational change in the CBM. Simulations show that the tyrosine residues on the hydrophobic surface of the CBM, Y5, Y31 and Y32 align with the cellulose chain adjacent to the reducing end and, importantly, that the fourth tyrosine residue in the CBM (Y13) moves from its internal position to form van der Waals interactions with the cellulose surface. As a consequence of this induced change near the surface, the CBM straddles the reducing end of the broken chain. Interestingly, all four aromatic residues are highly conserved in Family I CBM, and thus this recognition mechanism may be universal to this family. 
14976875	20040224	Rev._Argent._Microbiol.	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Degradation of pine needles by Stereum hirsutum].	Pine-needle degradation by Stereum hirsutum was studied under conditions of solid state fermentation with the aim of accelerating its decomposition, avoiding the accumulation in situ and in view of the possible utilization of the residual organic matter. Three experimental systems were tested: pine needles alone and with the addition of either a nitrogen source or barley grain. Determinations were made at 14 and 28 days of incubation. All treatments showed substrate degradation. The addition of a nitrogen source raised enzymatic activities measured but not the degree of degradation. Grain addition resulted in higher biomass, enzyme activities, sugar accumulation and degradation of the substrate. Fungal biomass estimated as N-acetyl glucosamine allowed calculation of the actual degradation of the substrate, that reached 19% at 28 d of culture without additions and 44% at 14 d in pine-needles with grain. 
18180966	20080109	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Mushroom spent straw: a potential substrate for an ethanol-based biorefinery.	Rice straw (RS) is an important lignocellulosic biomass with nearly 800 million dry tons produced annually worldwide. RS has immense potential as a lignocellulosic feedstock for making renewable fuels and chemicals in a biorefinery. However, because of its natural recalcitrance, RS needs thermochemical treatment prior to further biological processing. Ammonia fiber expansion (AFEX) is a leading biomass pretreatment process utilizing concentrated/liquefied ammonia to pretreat lignocellulosic biomass at moderate temperatures (70-140 degrees C). Previous research has shown improved cellulose and hemicellulose conversions upon AFEX treatment of RS at 2:1 ammonia to biomass (w/w) loading, 40% moisture (dwb) and 90 degrees C. However, there is still scope for further improvement. Fungal pretreatment of lignocellulosics is an important biological pretreatment method that has not received much attention in the past. A few reasons for ignoring fungal-based pretreatments are substantial loss in cellulose and hemicellulose content and longer pretreatment times that reduce overall productivity. However, the sugar loss can be minimized through use of white-rot fungi (e.g. Pleutorus ostreatus) over a much shorter duration of pretreatment time. It was found that mushroom spent RS prior to AFEX allowed reduction in thermochemical treatment severity, while resulting in 15% higher glucan conversions than RS pretreated with AFEX alone. In this work, we report the effect of fungal conditioning of RS followed by AFEX pretreatment and enzymatic hydrolysis. The recovery of other byproducts from the fungal conditioning process such as fungal enzymes and mushrooms are also discussed. 
15048569	20040330	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Synergistic antifungal activity of two chitin-binding proteins from spindle tree (Euonymus europaeus L.).	Two structurally different chitin-binding proteins were isolated from bark and leaves of the spindle tree (Euonymus europaeus L.). Both the small hevein-like chitin-binding protein (Ee-CBP) and the classical class-I chitinase (Ee-chitinase) possess antifungal properties, Ee-CBP being far more potent than Ee-chitinase. In addition, Ee-CBP and Ee-chitinase display a pronounced synergistic effect when added together in the test medium. Determination of the biological activities indicates that the synergism between Ee-CBP and Ee-chitinase relies on a different mode of action. Cloning and sequencing of the corresponding genes further revealed that Ee-CBP and Ee-chitinase are simultaneously expressed in bark and leaf tissues, and hence can act synergistically in planta. Moreover, analysis of the deduced sequences allowed the exact relationship between the structurally different Ee-CBP and Ee-chitinase to be corroborated. Both proteins are synthesized as similar chimeric precursors consisting of an N-terminal hevein domain linked to a C-terminal chitinase-like domain by a hinge region. However, whereas in the case of Ee-chitinase the C-terminal chitinase domain remains linked to the N-terminal hevein domain, the corresponding domain is cleaved from the Ee-CBP-precursor resulting in the formation of the hevein-type Ee-CBP. Since both precursors are--apart from the hinge region between the hevein and chitinase domains--very similar, the Ee-CBP/Ee-chitinase system offers a unique opportunity to study the importance of sequence and/or structural information comprised in the hinge region for the posttranslational processing of the respective precursor proteins. 
11739770	20011212	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 	Transcriptional regulation of 3,4-dihydroxy-2-butanone 4-phosphate synthase.	The filamentous hemiascomycete Ashbya gossypii is a strong riboflavin overproducer. A striking but as yet uninvestigated phenomenon is the fact that the overproduction of this vitamin starts when growth rate declines, which means that most of the riboflavin is produced in the stationary phase, the so-called production phase. The specific activity of 3,4-dihydroxy-2-butanone 4-phosphate (DHBP) synthase, the first enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway for riboflavin, was determined during cultivation and an increase during the production phase was found. Furthermore, an increase of RIB3 mRNA, encoding DHBP synthase, was observed by competitive RT-PCR in the production phase. The mRNAs of two housekeeping genes, ACT1 (encoding actin) and TEF (encoding translation elongation factor-1 alpha), served as standards in the RT-PCR. Reporter studies with a RIB3 promoter-lacZ fusion showed an increase of beta-galactosidase specific activity in the production phase. This investigation verified that the increase of RIB3 mRNA in the production phase is caused by an induction of promoter activity. These data suggest that the time course of riboflavin overproduction of A. gossypii is correlated with a transcriptional regulation of the DHBP synthase. 
22210210	20120103	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Enhanced microbial utilization of recalcitrant cellulose by an ex vivo cellulosome-microbe complex.	A cellulosome-microbe complex was assembled ex vivo on the surface of Bacillus subtilis displaying a miniscaffoldin that can bind with three dockerin-containing cellulase components: the endoglucanase Cel5, the processive endoglucanase Cel9, and the cellobiohydrolase Cel48. The hydrolysis performances of the synthetic cellulosome bound to living cells, the synthetic cellulosome, a noncomplexed cellulase mixture with the same catalytic components, and a commercial fungal enzyme mixture were investigated on low-accessibility recalcitrant Avicel and high-accessibility regenerated amorphous cellulose (RAC). The cell-bound cellulosome exhibited 4.5- and 2.3-fold-higher hydrolysis ability than cell-free cellulosome on Avicel and RAC, respectively. The cellulosome-microbe synergy was not completely explained by the removal of hydrolysis products from the bulk fermentation broth by free-living cells and appeared to be due to substrate channeling of long-chain hydrolysis products assimilated by the adjacent cells located in the boundary layer. Our results implied that long-chain hydrolysis products in the boundary layer may inhibit cellulosome activity to a greater extent than the short-chain products in bulk phase. The findings that cell-bound cellulosome expedited the microbial cellulose utilization rate by 2.3- to 4.5-fold would help in the development of better consolidated bioprocessing microorganisms (e.g., B. subtilis) that can hydrolyze recalcitrant cellulose rapidly at low secretory cellulase levels. 
15156766	20040526	Med_Pr	D004740 D016428 D016454 	[Allergy in the workplace--epidemiological prognoses and perspectives of hygienic prophylaxis].	Asthma and allergy are common among adults of the working age and their prevalence is growing in developed countries. The implementation of an effective surveillance, "sentinel" program, like the British SWORD is required so that public health strategies can be developed for occupational asthma and allergy in Poland. The use of personal dust samplers and specific immunoassays has facilitated the evaluations of exposure response relationships in workers exposed to high molecular weight sensitizers, e.g., wheat allergens, fungal alpha-amylase, laboratory animal allergens. To introduce hygiene standards for occupational allergens their standardization is still required, let us hope that this tasks will be very soon accomplished. 
24459841	20140128	Pol._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulase inhibits Burkholderia cepacia biofilms on diverse prosthetic materials.	Burkholderia cepacia is an opportunistic pathogen causing infections in patients with cystic fibrosis. Patients with implanted devices are prone to B. cepacia infections due to its ability to grow as biofilms. Knowing the importance of polysaccharides in a biofilm, enzymes that degrade them were targeted as a possible candidate for antibiofilm agents. In this study, the antibiofilm potential of cellulase against B. cepacia biofilms formed on various prosthetic materials was tested. Cellulase exhibited significant antibiofilm activity against B. cepacia without having much action on its growth, thus ruling out the chance of selection pressure and subsequent development resistance. 
17253723	20070127	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 D013485 	Efficient cellulase production by the filamentous fungus Acremonium cellulolyticus.	Cellulase production was investigated in a culture of a strain of Acremonium cellulolyticus. The medium components were optimized for the improvement of cellulase production. The maximum production of cellulolytic enzymes was obtained in a medium containing (grams per liter) 50 Solka Floc, 5 (NH4)2SO4, 24 KH2PO4, 4.7 potassium tartrate hemihydrate, 1.2 MgSO4.7H2O, 1 Tween 80, 4 urea, 0.01 ZnSO4.7H2O, 0.01 MnSO4.6H2O, and 0.01 CuSO4.7H2O, with a pH of 4.0. In the flask culture, 15.5 filter paper units (FPU)/mL of maximum cellulase activity was obtained, 17.42 FPU/mL in a 7-L bioreactor, and 13.08 FPU/mL in a 50-L scale bioreactor for 4-8 d at 30 degrees C. Average production rates were 1.94 FPU/mL.d in flasks, 2.86 FPU/mL.d in the 7-L bioreactor, and 2.56 FPU/mL.d in the 50-L bioreactor. Cellulase production on a small scale was successfully reproduced in the 50-L pilot scale bioreactor. Saccharification activity from A. cellulolyticus was compared with cellulolytic enzymes produced by other strains. The A. cellulolyticus culture broth had a comparable saccharification yield in comparison with those of other Trichoderma enzymes (GC220 or Cellulosin T2) under the same total cellulase activity. Its saccharification yield (percent of released reducing sugar to used dried substrate) was 60%, and its glucose content was 83%. 
9742010	19980919	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Allosamidin inhibits the fragmentation of Acremonium chrysogenum but does not influence the cephalosporin-C production of the fungus.	The pseudotrisaccharide allosamidin, a potent inhibitor of chitinases, retarded the fragmentation of hyphae but did not affect the fungal growth and cephalosporin-C production in Acremonium chrysogenum. In vitro inhibition of A. chrysogenum cell-bound chitinase(s) by allosamidin revealed that about 47% of the soluble intracellular chitinase activity was resistant to the inhibitory effect of allosamidin. On the other hand, about 76% of the total chitinase activity localised in both the soluble and insoluble enzyme fractions was effectively inhibited by allosamidin. All the chitinase activities were measured using a new procedure based on purified A. chrysogenum chitin as substrate. 
3290051	19880101	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Efficient secretion of two fungal cellobiohydrolases by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Two different cellobiohydrolases, CBHI and CBHII, of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei both hydrolyse highly crystalline cellulose. Cellulolytic strains of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were constructed by transferring cDNAs coding for these enzymes into yeast on an expression plasmid. These cellulolytic yeasts were able to secrete efficiently the large, heterologous proteins to the culture medium. The recombinant cellulases were observed to be heterogeneous in Mr due, at least partly, to variable N-glycosylation. Recombinant CBHII was able to bind to crystalline cellulose, although slightly less efficiently than the native enzyme. Both of the two recombinant cellulases were able to degrade amorphous cellulose. In a fermenter cultivation, around 100 micrograms/ml of CBHII was secreted into the yeast growth medium. 
15054248	20040401	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Application of xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus IOC-4145 for enzymatic hydrolysis of corncob and sugarcane bagasse.	Xylanases have significant current and potential uses for several industries including paper and pulp, food, and biofuel. For the biofuel industry, xylanases can be used to aid in the conversion of lignocellulose to fermentable sugars (e.g., xylose). We investigated the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus was yielded for xylanase production and found that the highest activity (850 U/mL) was yielded after 96 h of semisolid fermentation. The enzyme was used for hydrolyzing agricultural residues with and without pretreatment. Such residues were characterized in relation to the maximum xylose content by total acid hydrolysis. The highest xylose yields realized by enzymatic hydrolysis were 24 and 52%, achieved by using 3000 U/g (dried material) of sugarcane bagasse and corncob, respectively, which received both alkali and thermal pretreatment. 
9792173	19981029	Toxicon	D016428 	The cystine knot structure of ion channel toxins and related polypeptides.	An increasing number of ion channel toxins and related polypeptides have been found to adopt a common structural motif designated the inhibitor cystine knot motif (Pallaghy P. K., Nielsen, K. J., Craik, D. J., Norton, R. S. (1994) A common structural motif incorporating a cystine knot and triple-stranded beta-sheet in toxic and inhibitory polypeptides. Protein Science 3, 1833-1839). These globular, disulfide-stabilized molecules come from phylogenetically diverse sources, including spiders, cone shells, plants and fungi, and have various functions, although many target voltage-gated ion-channels. The common motif consists of a cystine knot and a triple-stranded, anti-parallel beta-sheet. Examples of ion-channel toxins known to adopt this structure are the omega-conotoxins and omega-agatoxins, and, more recently, robustoxin, versutoxin and protein 5 from spiders, as well as kappa-conotoxin PVIIA and conotoxin GS from cone shells. The variations on the motif structure exemplified by these structures are described here. We also consider the sequences of several polypeptides that might adopt this fold, including SNX-325 from a spider, delta-conotoxin PVIA and the muO-conotoxins from cone shells, and various plant and fungal polypeptides. The interesting case of the two- and three-disulfide bridged binding domains of the cellobiohydrolases from the fungus Trichoderma reesei is also discussed. The compact and robust nature of this motif makes it an excellent scaffold for the design and engineering of novel polypeptides with enhanced activity against existing targets, or with activity against novel targets. 
19539672	20090623	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Airlift-driven fibrous-bed bioreactor for continuous production of glucoamylase using immobilized recombinant yeast cells.	Continuous production of a fungal glucoamylase by immobilized recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain C468 containing plasmid pGAC9. Yeast cells were immobilized on hydrophilic cotton cloth in an inverse internal loop airlift-driven bioreactor. Free-cell culture in the airlift and stirred tank bioreactors confirmed the plasmid instability of the recombinant yeast. Enhanced glucoamylase productivity and plasmid stability were observed both in the free and immobilized cell cultures in the airlift bioreactor system. The glucoamylase level of the free-cell culture in the airlift bioreactor was approximately 20% higher than that in the in stirred tank bioreactor due to high cell density (cell dry weight/volume of bioreactor) and fraction of the plasmid-carrying cells. A potentially high glucoamylase activity of 161U/L and a corresponding volumetric productivity of 3.5U/Lh were achieved when a cell density of approximately 85g/L (or 12.3g/g fiber) was attained in the fibrous-bed immobilized cell bioreactor system. The stable glucoamylase production was achieved after five generations, at which time a fraction of approximately 62% of the plasmid-carrying cells was realized in the immobilized cell system. Plasmid stability was increased for the immobilized cells during continuous culture at the operating dilution rate. The volumetric and specific productivities and fraction of plasmid-carrying cells in the immobilized cell system were higher than in the free-cell counterpart, however. This was in part due to the high viability (approximately 80%) in the immobilized cell system and the selective immobilization of the plasmid-carrying cells in the fibrous bed, and perhaps increased plasmid copy number. 
16103021	20050817	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Clustering of MAL genes in Hansenula polymorpha: cloning of the maltose permease gene and expression from the divergent intergenic region between the maltose permease and maltase genes.	Hansenula polymorpha uses maltase to grow on maltose and sucrose. Inspection of genomic clones of H. polymorpha showed that the maltase gene HPMAL1 is clustered with genes corresponding to Saccharomyces cerevisiae maltose permeases and MAL activator genes orthologues. We sequenced the H. polymorpha maltose permease gene HPMAL2 of the cluster. The protein (582 amino acids) deduced from the HPMAL2 gene is predicted to have eleven transmembrane domains and shows 39-57% identity with yeast maltose permeases. The identity of the protein is highest with maltose permeases of Debaryomyces hansenii and Candida albicans. Expression of the HPMAL2 in a S. cerevisiae maltose permease-negative mutant CMY1050 proved functionality of the permease protein encoded by the gene. HPMAL1 and HPMAL2 genes are divergently positioned similarly to maltase and maltose permease genes in many yeasts. A two-reporter assay of the expression from the HPMAL1-HPMAL2 intergenic region showed that expression of both genes is coordinately regulated, repressed by glucose, induced by maltose, and that basal expression is higher in the direction of the permease gene. 
23750957	20130612	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Regulation of three genes encoding cell-wall-degrading enzymes of Trichoderma aggressivum during interaction with Agaricus bisporus.	Members of the genus Trichoderma are very effective competitors of a variety of fungi. Cell-wall-degrading enzymes, including proteinases, glucanases, and chitinases, are commonly secreted as part of the competitive process. Trichoderma aggressivum is the causative agent of green mould disease of the button mushroom, Agaricus bisporus. The structures of 3 T. aggressivum genes, prb1 encoding a proteinase, ech42 encoding an endochitinase, and a β-glucanase gene, were determined. Promoter elements in the prb1 and ech42 genes suggested that transcription is regulated by carbon and nitrogen levels and by stress. Both genes had mycoparasitism-related elements indicating potential roles for the protein products in competition. The promoter of the β-glucanase gene contained CreA and AreA binding sites indicative of catabolite regulation but contained no mycoparasitism elements. Transcription of the 3 genes was measured in mixed cultures of T. aggressivum and A. bisporus. Two A. bisporus strains, U1, which is sensitive to green mould disease, and SB65, which shows some resistance, were used in co-cultivation tests to assess possible roles of the genes in disease production and severity. prb1 and ech42 were coordinately upregulated after 5 days, whereas β-glucanase transcription was upregulated from day 0 with both Agaricus strains. Upregulation was much less pronounced in mixed cultures of T. aggressivum with the resistant strain, SB65, than with the sensitive strain, U1. These observations suggested that the proteins encoded by these genes have roles in both nutrition and in severity of green mould disease. 
1423728	19921101	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Genomic organization of a cellulase gene family in Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	Southern blot and nucleotide sequence analysis of Phanerochaete chrysosporium BKM-F-1767 genomic clones indicate that this wood-degrading fungus contains at least six genes with significant homology to the Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I gene (cbh1). Using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis to separate P. chrysosporium chromosomes, the six cellulase genes were found to hybridize to at least three different chromosomes, one of which is dimorphic. The organization of these genes was similar in another P. chrysosporium strain, ME 446. It is clear that, unlike T. reesei, the most well-studied cellulolytic fungus, P. chrysosporium contains a complex, cbh1-like gene family. 
22526794	20120425	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	The metabolic burden of cellulase expression by recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae Y294 in aerobic batch culture.	Two recombinant strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Y294 producing cellulase using different expression strategies were compared to a reference strain in aerobic culture to evaluate the potential metabolic burden that cellulase expression imposed on the yeast metabolism. In a chemically defined mineral medium with glucose as carbon source, S. cerevisiae strain Y294[CEL5] with plasmid-borne cellulase genes produced endoglucanase and β-glucosidase activities of 0.038 and 0.30 U mg dry cell weight(-1), respectively. Chromosomal expression of these two cellulases in strain Y294[Y118p] resulted in no detectable activity, although low levels of episomally co-expressed cellobiohydrolase (CBH) activity were detected. Whereas the biomass concentration of strain Y294[CEL5] was slightly greater than that of a reference strain, CBH expression by Y294[Y118p] resulted in a 1.4-fold lower maximum specific growth rate than that of the reference. Supplementation of the growth medium with amino acids significantly improved culture growth and enzyme production, but only partially mitigated the physiological effects and metabolic burden of cellulase expression. Glycerol production was decreased significantly, up to threefold, in amino acid-supplemented cultures, apparently due to redox balancing. Disproportionately higher levels of glycerol production by Y294[CEL5] indicated a potential correlation between the redox balance of anabolism and the physiological stress of cellulase production. With the reliance on cellulase expression in yeast for the development of consolidated bioprocesses for bioethanol production, this work demonstrates the need for development of yeasts that are physiologically robust in response to burdens imposed by heterologous enzyme production. 
11911612	20020326	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and regeneration of protoplasts from the yeast and mycelial form of the dimorphic zygomycete Benjaminiella poitrasii: role of chitin metabolism for morphogenesis during regeneration.	Experimental parameters for isolation and regeneration of protoplasts from the mycelial and yeast form cells of the dimorphic zygomycete Benjamininiella poitrasii are reported. Using a chitosanase containing preparation from Streptomyces sp. MCl we obtained protoplasts after 5 h incubation with a yield of 2+/-0.3 x 10(6) ml(-1) and 3+/-0.4 x 10(7) ml(-1) for the mycelial and yeast form, respectively. During regeneration under conditions triggering dimorphism the two morphological forms were observed after 36 h. Initially, for 10-12 h only an irregular mass was formed as a result of deregulated cell wall synthesis. Among the tested inhibitors influencing cell wall metabolism, chitin metabolism inhibitors showed distinctive effects on the regeneration of protoplasts suggesting that the respective enzymes significantly contribute to determining the morphogenesis of the dimorphic fungus B. poitrasii. 
8307996	19940211	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	2-O-methyl-D-mannose residues are immunodominant in extracellular polysaccharides of Mucor racemosus and related molds.	In this study, the structure of the immunodominant carbohydrate epitope of the extracellular polysaccharides from mold species belonging to the order Mucorales reactive with rabbit IgG antibodies was elucidated. An exo-alpha-D-mannanase which was able to abolish the antigenicity of these polysaccharides completely was purified and characterized, and the activity was compared with that of an alpha-D-mannosidase. Analysis of the monomeric reaction products after enzymatic treatment revealed the presence of 2-O-methyl-D-mannose residues. This compound is a constituent of the polysaccharides from the mold genera Mucor, Rhizopus, Rhizomucor, Absidia, Syncephalastrum, and Thamnidium, and its occurrence in fungi has not been reported until now. Two mannan fractions which are highly reactive with rabbit IgG were isolated from the extracellular polysaccharides of Mucor racemosus and characterized with ethylation analysis. The role of the newly found 2-O-methyl-D-mannose residues in the immunoreactivity was assessed by specific degradation of these mannans with the exo-alpha-D-mannanase and subsequent ethylation analysis. It was concluded that the immunodominant carbohydrates reactive with rabbit IgG are chains composed of a single terminal non-reducing 2-O-methyl-D-mannose residue, alpha (1-2)-linked to a short sequence of alpha(1-2)-linked D-mannose residues. 
12013217	20020516	J._Chromatogr._B_Analyt._Technol._Biomed._Life_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Liquid chromatographic and electrophoretic characterisation of extracellular beta-glucosidase of Pleurotus ostreatus grown in organic waste.	The production of beta-glucosidase by the ligninolytic fungus Pleurotus ostreatus has been studied in different culture media containing agro-industrial wastes. The enzyme is purified by anion-exchange chromatography, the molecular mass and isoelectric point of purified beta-glucosidase are measured by sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and isoelectric focusing and the stability and kinetic parameters of the enzyme assessed by spectrophotometry. It has been established that the retention time, molecular mass and isoelectric point of the enzyme depend on the composition of the culture media while the activity and stability of beta-glucosidases of different origin were very similar. The combined chromatographic and electrophoretic methods have proved to be suitable techniques for the purification and characterisation of the beta-glucosidases produced by the ligninolytic fungus Pleurotus ostreatus in different culture media. 
1101979	19750901	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D003160 D016428 	Cellulase and protein production from mixed cultures of Trichoderma viride and a yeast.	Fermentations with mixed cultures of the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma viride and the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae or Candida utilis were examined. The fermentations were carried out in an aerated 5 liter fermentor with NaOH treated barley straw as the cellulose source (2-4%). Yeast was inoculated 24-32 hr after the fungus and the growth of the two organisms was followed through the production of CO2 and cell protein. In comparison with fermentations with T. viride alone, the production time for maximum yields of cellulases and cell protein was reduced by several days, depending on the straw concentrations. The protein content of the growth product was 21-22% and the amino acid composition of the product resembled that of T. viride alone. 
16021486	20050716	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	A new method for screening and isolation of hypersecretion mutants in Aspergillus niger.	Although filamentous fungi have a unique property of secreting a large amount of homologous extracellular proteins, the use of filamentous fungi as hosts for the production of heterologous proteins is limited because of the low production levels that are generally reached. Here, we report a general screening method for the isolation of mutants with increased protein production levels. The screening method makes use of an Aspergillus niger strain that lacks the two major amylolytic enzymes, glucoamylase (GlaA) and acid amylase (AamA). The double-mutant strain grows poorly on starch and its growth is restored after reintroducing the catalytic part of the glucoamylase gene (GlaA512). We show that the fusion of a heterologous protein, a laccase from Pleurotus ostreatus (Pox2), to the catalytic part of glucoamylase (GlaA512-Pox2) severely hampers efficient production of the glucoamylase protein, resulting in a slow-growth phenotype on starch. Laccase-hypersecreting mutants were obtained by isolating mutants that displayed improved growth on starch plates. The mutant with the highest growth rate on starch displayed the highest laccase activity, indicating that increased glucoamylase protein levels are correlated with higher laccase production levels. In principle, our method can be applied to any low-produced heterologous protein that is secreted as a fusion with the glucoamylase protein. 
24113822	20131012	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Novel multispecies microbial consortia involved in lignocellulose and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural bioconversion.	To develop a targeted metagenomics approach for the analysis of novel multispecies microbial consortia involved in the bioconversion of lignocellulose and furanic compounds, we applied replicated sequential batch aerobic enrichment cultures with either pretreated or untreated wheat straw as the sources of carbon and energy. After each transfer, exponential growth of bacteria was detected using microscopic cell counts, indicating that the substrate was being utilized. In batch, the final bacterial abundances increased from an estimated 5 to 8.7-9.5 log 16S rRNA gene copy numbers/ml. The abundances of fungal propagules showed greater variation, i.e., between 5.4 and 8.0 log ITS1 copies/ml. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analyses showed that the bacterial consortia in both treatments reached approximate structural stability after six transfers. Moreover, the structures of the fungal communities were strongly influenced by substrate treatment. A total of 124 bacterial strains were isolated from the two types of enrichment cultures. The most abundant strains were affiliated with the genera Raoultella/Klebsiella, Kluyvera, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, Flavobacterium and Arthrobacter. Totals of 43 and 11 strains obtained from the untreated and pretreated substrates, respectively, showed (hemi)cellulolytic activity (CMC-ase and xylanase), whereas 96 strains were capable of growth in 7.5 mM 5-hydroxymethylfurfural. About 50 % of the latter showed extracellular oxidoreductase activity as detected by a novel iodide oxidation method. Also, (hemi)cellulolytic fungal strains related to Coniochaeta, Plectosphaerella and Penicillium were isolated. One Trichosporon strain was isolated from pretreated wheat straw. The two novel bacterial-fungal consortia are starting points for lignocellulose degradation applications. 
24055682	20130924	Biotechnol._Adv.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Cutinase: characteristics, preparation, and application.	Cutinases (E.C. 3.1.1.74) belong to the α/β-hydrolase superfamily. They were initially discovered because they are secreted by fungi to hydrolyze the ester bonds of the plant polymer cutin. Since then, they have been shown to catalyze the hydrolysis of a variety of polymers, insoluble triacylglycerols, and low-molecular-weight soluble esters. Cutinases are also capable of catalyzing esterification and transesterification reactions. These relatively small, versatile, secreted catalysts have shown promise in a number of industrial applications. This review begins by describing the characteristics of cutinases, pointing out key differences among cutinases, esterases and lipases, and reviewing recent progress in engineering improved cutinases. It continues with a review of the methods used to produce cutinases, with the goal of obtaining sufficient quantities of material for use in industrial processes. Finally, the uses of cutinases in the textile industry are described. The studies presented here demonstrate that the cutinases are poised to become important industrial catalysts, replacing older technologies with more environmentally friendly processes.  
8755914	19960801	J._Bacteriol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Nucleotide sequence of a beta-1,3-glucanase isoenzyme IIA gene of Oerskovia xanthineolytica LL G109 (Cellulomonas cellulans) and initial characterization of the recombinant enzyme expressed in Bacillus subtilis.	The nucleotide sequence of the betaglIIA gene, encoding the extracellular beta-1,3-glucanase IIA (betaglIIA) of the yeast-lytic actinomycete Oerskovia xanthineolytica LL G109, was determined. Sequence comparison shows that the betaglIIA enzyme has over 80% identity to the betaglII isoenzyme, an endo-beta-1,3-glucanase having low yeast-lytic activity secreted by the same bacterium. The betaglIIA enzyme lacks a glucan- or mannan-binding domain, such as those observed in beta-1,3-glucanases and proteases having high yeast/fungus-lytic activity. It can be included in the glycosyl hydrolase family 16. Gene fusion expression in Bacillus subtilis DN1885 followed by preliminary characterization of the recombinant gene product indicates that betaglIIA has a pI of 3.8 to 4.0 and is active on both laminarin and curdlan, having an acid optimum pH activity (ca. 4.0). 
1368253	19920601	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Construction of an alpha-amylase/glucoamylase fusion gene and its expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A fusion gene which encoded a polypeptide comprised of 1116 amino acids was constructed using the alpha-amylase and glucoamylase cDNAs of Aspergillus shirousamii. When the fusion gene was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using a yeast expression plasmid under the control of the yeast ADH1 promoter, a bifunctional fusion protein (145 kDa) having both alpha-amylase and glucoamylase activities was secreted into the culture medium. The fusion protein had higher raw-starch-digesting activity than those of the original alpha-amylase and glucoamylase, and adsorbed onto raw starch like the glucoamylase. It was suggested that the characteristics are a result of the raw-starch-affinity site in the glucoamylase domain of the fusion protein. 
10427736	19990731	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Influence of growth conditions on the production of xylanolytic enzymes by Aspergillus flavus.	Investigations were carried out to optimize the culture conditions for the production of xylanase and beta-xylosidase by Aspergillus flavus, a filamentous fungus isolated from soil. The production of enzymes was tolerant to a wide range of initial culture pH values. Maximum xylanase (190 U/ml) and beta-xylosidase (35 U/ml) production was obtained when the strain was grown on mineral medium supplemented with 3% (w/v) corn cob powder as the carbon source. The enzymes had optimal activities at pH values between 5.5 and 6.0 and exhibited high activity and stability under alkaline conditions. 
2115121	19900801	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013487 	Structure and regulation of KGD2, the structural gene for yeast dihydrolipoyl transsuccinylase.	Yeast mutants assigned to the pet complementation group G104 were found to lack alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activity as a result of mutations in the dihydrolipoyl transsuccinylase (KE2) component of the complex. The nuclear gene KGD2, coding for yeast KE2, was cloned by transformation of E250/U6, a G104 mutant, with a yeast genomic library. Analysis of the KGD2 sequence revealed an open reading frame encoding a protein with a molecular weight of 52,375 and 42% identities to the KE2 component of Escherichia coli alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. Disruption of the chromosomal copy of KGD2 in a respiratory-competent haploid yeast strain elicited a growth phenotype similar to that of G104 mutants and abolished the ability to mitochondria to catalyze the reduction of NAD+ by alpha-ketoglutarate. The expression of KGD2 was transcriptionally regulated by glucose. Northern (RNA) analysis of poly(A)+ RNA indicated the existence of two KGD2 transcripts differing in length by 150 nucleotides. The concentrations of both RNAs were at least 10 times lower in glucose (repressed)- than in galactose (derepressed)-grown cells. Different 5'-flanking regions of KGD2 were fused to the lacZ gene of E. coli in episomal plasmids, and the resultant constructs were tested for expression of beta-galactosidase in wild-type yeast cells and in hap2 and hap3 mutants. Results of the lacZ fusion assays indicated that transcription of KGD2 is activated by the HAP2 and HAP3 proteins. The regulated expression of KGD2 was found to depend on sequences that map to a region 244 to 484 nucleotides upstream of the structural gene. This region contains two short sequence elements that differ by one nucleotide from the consensus core (5'-TN[A/G]TTGGT-3') that has been proposed to be essential for binding of the HAP activation complex. These data together with earlier reports on the regulation of the KGD1 and LPD1 genes for the alpha-ketoglutarate and dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenases indicate that all three enzyme components of the complex are catabolite repressed and subject to positive regulation by the HAP2 and HAP3 proteins. 
1976383	19900807	Biochemistry	D003160 D016428 	A shared internal threonine-glutamic acid-threonine-proline repeat defines a family of Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination specific proteins.	A cDNA denoted pRK270 hybridizes to two mRNA species in RNA blots. The mRNAs specific to this clone are not expressed during vegetative growth and multicellular development. They are, however, found predominantly during early stages of spore germination, suggesting that their synthesis is rapidly and coordinately turned on during germination. Two different cDNAs named 270-6 and 270-11 were isolated, representing the two mRNAs. DNA blot analysis shows that 270 is a multigene family. Four genes were isolated from Dictyostelium genomic libraries and sequenced. The putative proteins coded for by these genes are about 51,000, 55,000, 76,000, and 100,000 Da. Two of the genes are expressed during spore germination while transcripts for the other two are not present during spore germination, vegetative growth, or the stages of multicellular development studied. The cDNAs and genes code for deduced proteins that possess a very unusual internal amino acid repeat comprised of the tetrapeptide threonine-glutamic acid-threonine-proline. The other portions of the proteins have no homology among themselves. The 270-6 protein shows excellent identity with avocado (Persea americana) cellulase, indicating that it may function as an endo-(1,4)-beta-D-glucanase. 
21310069	20110212	BMC_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Genetically altering the expression of neutral trehalase gene affects conidiospore thermotolerance of the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium acridum.	The entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium acridum has been used as an important biocontrol agent instead of insecticides for controlling crop pests throughout the world. However, its virulence varies with environmental factors, especially temperature. Neutral trehalase (Ntl) hydrolyzes trehalose, which plays a role in environmental stress response in many organisms, including M. acridum. Demonstration of a relationship between Ntl and thermotolerance or virulence may offer a new strategy for enhancing conidiospore thermotolerance of entomopathogenic fungi through genetic engineering. We selected four Ntl over-expression and four Ntl RNA interference (RNAi) transformations in which Ntl expression is different. Compared to the wild-type, Ntl mRNA expression was reduced to 35-66% in the RNAi mutants and increased by 2.5-3.5-fold in the over-expression mutants. The RNAi conidiospores exhibited less trehalase activity, accumulated more trehalose, and were much more tolerant of heat stress than the wild-type. The opposite effects were found in conidiospores of over-expression mutants compared to RNAi mutants. Furthermore, virulence was not altered in the two types of mutants compared to the wild type. Ntl controlled trehalose accumulation in M. acridum by degrading trehalose, and thus affected conidiospore thermotolerance. These results offer a new strategy for enhancing conidiospore thermotolerance of entomopathogenic fungi without affecting virulence. 
24425610	20140116	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Isolation and selection of cellulolytic fungi from palm oil mill effluent.	Cellulolytic fungi, 34 strains, were isolated from samples taken from palm oil mill residues and effluent, and high cellulase producers selected in comparison with nine known reference strains. Although 13 isolates showed good filter paper distintegration within 14 days, only eight isolates exhibited clearing zones around their colonies on carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) agar medium. Quantitative cellulase activity measurements, using CMC as carbon source, selected three of the eight isolates as potential cellulase producers. Using dried palm oil mill condensate as carbon source, only one of the isolates (F 11) showed similar results on both carbon sources. During media optimization for CMCase production, a four-fold increase from 0.058 to 0.275 U/ml was obtained using a medium, containing 0.1% (v/v) Tween 80 0.02% (w/v) NH4NO3, 0.025% (w/v) proteose-peptone and 0.1% (w/v) CMC dissolved in undiluted condensate from the sterilization of oil palm bunches, with an initial pH of 5.5.  
11782497	20020110	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Secretion of active anti-Ras single-chain Fv antibody by the yeasts Yarrowia lipolytica and Kluyveromyces lactis.	Yarrowia lipolytica and Kluyveromyces lactis secretion vectors were constructed and assessed for the expression of heterologous proteins. An anti-Ras single-chain antibody fragment (scFv) coding sequence was fused in-frame to different pre- or prepro-regions, or downstream from a reporter secretory gene (Arxula adeninivorans glucoamylase), separated by a Kex2 protease (Kex2p)-like processing sequence. Both organisms are able to secrete soluble scFv, with yields depending on the nature of the expression cassette, up to levels ranging from 10 to 20 mg l(-1). N-terminal sequence analysis of the purified scFv showed that fusions are correctly processed to the mature scFv by a signal peptidase or a Kex2p-type endoprotease present in Y. lipolytica and K. lactis. The scFv protein also retains the capacity to bind to a glutathioneS-transferase (GST)-Harvey-Ras(Val12) fusion, indicating that the antibody is functional. These results indicate that the yeasts Y. lipolytica and K. lactis have potential for industrial production of soluble and active scFv. 
8675958	19960205	J._Biochem._Biophys._Methods	D016428 D013485 	Solid-state CP/MASS 13C-NMR spectroscopy: a sensitive method to monitor enzymatic hydrolysis of chitin.	The time-course hydrolysis of colloidal chitin by the chitinase complex isolated from Myrothecium verrucaria was monitored using solution and solid-state 13C-NMR spectroscopy. The solution NMR studies showed the presence of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) as the sole product of hydrolysis. Solid-state 13C CP/MASS studies, on the other hand, indicated the presence of high molecular weight oligomers as well as GlcNAc. The linewidth of the C1 carbon of the oligomers obtained after hydrolysis is found to be less than that of the unhydrolyzed sample. The linewidths calculated from the spin-spin relaxation times (T2) of colloidal chitin and its products of hydrolysis were in the restricted range of 40-50 Hz, compared with the observed linewidths of 143-123 Hz. Peak area measurement on monomer to polymer/oligomer indicated an initial slow formation of the monomer, GlcNAc. From the NMR data, the involvement of endo-enzymes in the initial phase of hydrolysis is suggested. 
9593202	19980521	Proteins	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Packing forces in nine crystal forms of cutinase.	During the characterization of mutants and covalently inhibited complexes of Fusarium solani cutinase, nine different crystal forms have been obtained so far. Protein mutants with a different surface charge distribution form new intermolecular salt bridges or long-range electrostatic interactions that are accompanied by a change in the crystal packing. The whole protein surface is involved in the packing contacts and the hydrophobicities of the protein surfaces in mutual contact turned out to be noncorrelated, which indicates that the packing interactions are nonspecific. In the case of the hydrophobic variants, the packing contacts showed some specificity, as the protein in the crystal tends to form either crystallographic or noncrystallographic dimers, which shield the hydrophobic surface from the solvent. The likelihood of surface atoms to be involved in a crystal contact is the same for both polar and nonpolar atoms. However, when taking areas in the 200-600 A2 range, instead of individual atoms, the either highly hydrophobic or highly polar surface regions were found to have an increased probability of establishing crystal lattice contacts. The protein surface surrounding the active-site crevice of cutinase constitutes a large hydrophobic area that is involved in packing contacts in all the various crystalline contexts. 
1524431	19921001	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Purification and characterization of a strictly specific beta-D-fucosidase from Aspergillus phoenicis.	Although beta-D-fucosidase (beta-D-fucohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.38) has been isolated from various sources, all those enzymes were associated with a high activity of beta-D-galactosidase and/or beta-D-glucosidase. We have purified a specific beta-D-fucosidase in electrophoretically homogeneous form from crude extracts of Aspergillus phoenicis by polyethyleneglycol 8000-phosphate buffer aqueous two-phase separation, and successive chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex A-50, hydroxyapatite, and Sephadex G-100 columns. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 57,000 by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and 50,000 to 60,000 by gel filtration on Sephadex G-100. The enzyme showed optimum activity at pH 6.0 and 40 degrees C; it was stable in the pH range 5.5-6.5 and below 35 degrees C. The Km and the Vmax values for pNP-beta -D-fucoside were 2.4 mM, and 12.8 mumol.min-1.mg-1, respectively. The enzyme was strongly inhibited by sulfhydryl group reagents, p-chloromercuribenzoate, n-ethylmaleimide, and iodoacetate. It was also inhibited by 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide, diethyl pyrocarbonate, and N-bromosuccinimide. Thus, -SH and -COOH groups and histidyl and tryptophyl residues were essential for enzyme activity. The purified beta-D-fucosidase showed high specificity toward p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-fucoside. The enzyme was inhibited by D-fucose and D-fucono-gamma-lactone, but not by D-galactose, D-galactono-gamma-lactone, D-glucose, or D-glucono-gamma-lactone; the latter compounds are specific inhibitors of beta-D-galactosidase and beta-D-glucosidase, respectively. Thus, this enzyme is the most strictly specific beta-D-fucosidase when compared with those previously reported. 
16415209	20060118	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013485 	The epidermis-specific extracellular BODYGUARD controls cuticle development and morphogenesis in Arabidopsis.	The outermost epidermal cell wall is specialized to withstand pathogens and natural stresses, and lipid-based cuticular polymers are the major barrier against incursions. The Arabidopsis thaliana mutant bodyguard (bdg), which exhibits defects characteristic of the loss of cuticle structure not attributable to a lack of typical cutin monomers, unexpectedly accumulates significantly more cell wall-bound lipids and epicuticular waxes than wild-type plants. Pleiotropic effects of the bdg mutation on growth, viability, and cell differentiation are also observed. BDG encodes a member of the alpha/beta-hydrolase fold protein superfamily and is expressed exclusively in epidermal cells. Using Strep-tag epitope-tagged BDG for mutant complementation and immunolocalization, we show that BDG is a polarly localized protein that accumulates in the outermost cell wall in the epidermis. With regard to the appearance and structure of the cuticle, the phenotype conferred by bdg is reminiscent of that of transgenic Arabidopsis plants that express an extracellular fungal cutinase, suggesting that bdg may be incapable of completing the polymerization of carboxylic esters in the cuticular layer of the cell wall or the cuticle proper. We propose that BDG codes for an extracellular synthase responsible for the formation of cuticle. The alternative hypothesis proposes that BDG controls the proliferation/differentiation status of the epidermis via an unknown mechanism. 
16104859	20050818	Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Recombination within sympatric cryptic species of the insect pathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae.	Metarhizium anisopliae is an insect pathogenic fungus with a worldwide distribution. It is being developed and used as a biocontrol agent against a wide range of insect pests but relatively little is known of the life history of this fungus. We tested hypotheses concerning reproductive isolation and recombination in a sample of heat-active (ability to grow at 37 degrees C) and cold-active (ability to grow at 8 degrees C) sympatrically occurring isolates of M. anisopliae from Ontario, Canada by assaying nucleotide sequence variation at six polymorphic loci: the internally transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat, and portions of calmodulin (CAL), chitin synthase (CHS), subtilisin-like protease (PR1), neutral trehalase (NTL) and actin (ACT)-encoding genes. The most parsimonious trees constructed showed a topology consistent with the heat-active and cold-active isolates as two monophyletic groups. We then applied Genealogical Concordance Phylogenetic Species Recognition (GCPSR) to the genealogical trees and concluded that the transition from concordance among branches to incongruity among branches delimited two species of M. anisopliae within Ontario. The GCPSR of two species was supported by intraspecific incongruity within each species when tested using the Partition Homogeneity test, indicating recombination. The GCPSR of two species also corresponded to the heat-active and cold-active groups. As the groups are morphologically indistinguishable we applied the term 'cryptic species'. Therefore, the sympatrically occurring heat-active and cold-active isolates represent different cryptic species with a history of recombination among isolates within each species. 
9002270	19970101	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 	Cutinase A of Botrytis cinerea is expressed, but not essential, during penetration of gerbera and tomato.	The plant pathogen Botrytis cinerea can infect undamaged plant tissue directly by penetration of the cuticle. This penetration has been suggested to be enzyme-mediated, and an important role for cutinase in the infection process has been proposed. In this study the expression of the cutinase encoding gene cutA of B. cinerea was analyzed using a cutA promoter-GUS reporter gene fusion. Transformants containing the fusion construct were examined for GUS expression on gerbera flowers and tomato fruits. High GUS activity was detected from the onset of conidial germination and during penetration into epidermal cells, indicating that cutA is expressed during the early stages of infection. To determine the biological relevance of cutinase A for successful penetration, cutinase A-deficient mutants were constructed by gene disruption. Pathogenicity of two transformants lacking a functional cutA gene was studied on gerbera flowers and tomato fruits. Their ability to penetrate and cause symptoms was unaltered compared to the wild-type strain. These results exclude an important role for cutinase A during direct penetration of host tissue by B. cinerea. 
19476005	20090530	Nat_Prod_Commun	D016428 	Mutagenesis and genotypic characterization of Aspergillus niger FCBP-02 for improvement in cellulolytic potential.	Cellulase is a collective term that encompasses enzymes which catalyze reactions that participate in the degradation of insoluble cellulose to soluble carbohydrates. In the present study, production of extra cellular cellulases by a filamentous fungus, Aspergillus niger FCBP-02, was studied in solid-state fermentation (SSF) as well as in submerged fermentation (SmF). Trials were conducted to evaluate the effect of mutagenesis by UV irradiation (5-40 min) and ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) treatment (50-300 microg mL(-1)) to obtain hyper active cellulase enzyme producers among the potential strains. The enzyme activity assays of parental and mutant strains clearly revealed significantly higher cellulase activity of mutant A-Ch-5.5 (96 Units mL(-1)), followed by A-UV-5.6 (71 Units mL(-1)) with respect to the wild strain of A. niger FCBP-02 (53.7 Units mL(-1)). The profile of genetic variability among wild and mutant derivatives was scrutinized through RAPD-PCR. The expression pattern of mutants exhibited that the mutants were isogenic variants of the wild type and the out performance of the mutants could be attributed to the change in genetic make up. 
2121133	19901001	Biochem._J.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	The tertiary structure of a bacterial cellulase determined by small-angle X-ray-scattering analysis.	CenA from Cellulomonas fimi is a beta-1,4-endoglucanase that binds tightly to cellulose. X-ray-scattering analyses show that the enzyme is tadpole-shaped: the previously identified catalytic and cellulose-binding domains comprise the head and tail respectively. It appears that this structural and functional organization is common to several cellulases from bacteria and fungi. 
23537879	20130330	Fungal_Biol	D016428 D013485 	Ethanol production from high cellulose concentration by the basidiomycete fungus Flammulina velutipes.	Ethanol production by Flammulina velutipes from high substrate concentrations was evaluated. F. velutipes produces approximately 40-60 g l(-1) ethanol from 15% (w/v) D-glucose, D-fructose, D-mannose, sucrose, maltose, and cellobiose, with the highest conversion rate of 83% observed using cellobiose as a carbon source. We also attempted to assess direct ethanol fermentation from sugarcane bagasse cellulose (SCBC) by F. velutipes. The hydrolysis rate of 15% (w/v) SCBC with commercial cellulase was approximately 20%. In contrast, F. velutipes was able to produce a significant amount of ethanol from 15% SCBC with the production of β-glucosidase, cellobohydrolase, and cellulase, although the addition of a small amount of commercial cellulase to the culture was required for the conversion. When 9 mg g(-1) biomass of commercial cellulase was added to cultures, 0.36 g of ethanol was produced from 1 g of cellulose, corresponding to an ethanol conversion rate of 69.6%. These results indicate that F. velutipes would be useful for consolidated bioprocessing of lignocellulosic biomass to bioethanol. 
15341651	20040903	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Endoplasmic reticulum stress leads to the selective transcriptional downregulation of the glucoamylase gene in Aspergillus niger.	We describe a new endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated stress response in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger. The inhibition of protein folding within the ER leads to cellular responses known collectively as the unfolded protein response (UPR) and we show that the selective transcriptional downregulation of the gene encoding glucoamylase, a major secreted protein, but not two non-secreted proteins, is an additional consequence of ER stress. The transcriptional downregulation effect is shown by nuclear run-on studies to be at the level of transcription, rather than mRNA stability, and is found to be mediated through the promoter of glaA in a region more than 1 kb upstream of the translational start. The inhibition of protein folding in the ER can be induced in a variety of ways. We examined the effects of dithiothreitol (DTT), a reducing agent that causes the formation of unfolded proteins. Although a general downregulation of transcription was seen with DTT treatment, we show that selective downregulation was observed with the glaA gene compared with genes encoding the non-secreted proteins gamma-actin and glyceraldehyde 3'-phosphate dehydrogenase. The DTT-treated fungal cells also showed evidence for the induction of the UPR because expression of bipA and pdiA, encoding an ER-resident chaperone and foldase, respectively, are upregulated and splicing of hacA, the gene encoding the transcription factor responsible for induction of the UPR, occurs allowing the production of an active HacA protein. As a preliminary attempt to investigate if the transcriptional downregulation effect was mediated through HacA (i.e. part of the UPR), we examined ER stress induced through antisense technology to lower the level of PDI in the ER of A. niger. Although the transcription of glaA was attenuated in that strain of A. niger, UPR was not evident, suggesting that the transcriptional downregulation mechanism is controlled differently from the UPR. 
21171891	20101222	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Pectin methylesterase is induced in Arabidopsis upon infection and is necessary for a successful colonization by necrotrophic pathogens.	The ability of bacterial or fungal necrotrophs to produce enzymes capable of degrading pectin is often related to a successful initiation of the infective process. Pectin is synthesized in a highly methylesterified form and is subsequently de-esterified in muro by pectin methylesterase. De-esterification makes pectin more susceptible to the degradation by pectic enzymes such as endopolygalacturonases (endoPG) and pectate lyases secreted by necrotrophic pathogens during the first stages of infection. We show that, upon infection, Pectobacterium carotovorum and Botrytis cinerea induce in Arabidopsis a rapid expression of AtPME3 that acts as a susceptibility factor and is required for the initial colonization of the host tissue. 
10713213	20000314	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 	The influence of culture conditions on mycelial structure and cellulase production by Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30.	The morphology of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30, during submerged cultivations in shake flask, was examined. The influence of the size inoculum and the composition of the fermentation medium on the morphology and cellulase production was studied. Different inoculum sizes were studied but the significative change in fungus morphology was observed for spores concentration between 10(5) and 10(7) spores/ml (i.e. 10(2) and 10(4) spores/ml in pre-culture medium). In the medium without Tween 80, at low inoculum size, the majority of the pellets were large and well individualized, in contrast, at higher inoculation densities small flocs were obtained, with higher production of soluble protein and higher filter paper activity. It was found that the average pellet size seems to be inversely proportional to the inoculum size. Medium composition, namely Tween 80, also influences the morphology of T. reesei Rut C-30 and enzyme production. The presence of Tween 80 in fermentation medium inhibited the pellet formation of this strain. 
12177354	20020815	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Protective role of trehalose during severe oxidative stress caused by hydrogen peroxide and the adaptive oxidative stress response in Candida albicans.	The cellular response to the oxidative stress caused by hydrogen peroxide and its putative correlation with the stress protector trehalose was investigated in Candida albicans CAI.4 and the tps1/tps1 double mutant, which is deficient in trehalose synthesis. When exponential wild-type blastoconidia were exposed to high concentrations of hydrogen peroxide, they displayed a high cell survival, accompanied by a marked rise of intracellular trehalose. The latter is due to a moderate activation of trehalose synthase and the concomitant inactivation of neutral trehalase. Identical challenge in the tps1/tps1 double mutant severely reduced cell viability, a phenotype which was suppressed by overexpression of the TPS1 gene. Pretreatment of growing cultures from both strains with either a low, non-lethal concentration of H(2)O(2) (0.5 mM) or a preincubation at 37 degrees C, induced an adaptive response that protected cells from being killed by a subsequent exposure to oxidative stress. During these mild oxidative preincubations, trehalose was not induced in CAI.4 cells and remained undetectable in their tps1/tps1 counterpart. Blastoconidia from the two strains exhibited a similar degree of cell protection during the adaptive response. The induction of trehalose accumulation by H(2)O(2) was not due to an increased expression of TPS1 mRNA. These results are consistent with a mainly protective role of trehalose in C. albicans during direct oxidative stress but not during acquired oxidative tolerance. 
23115510	20121102	Mycobiology	D016428 	Biochemical Characterization of an Extracellular β-Glucosidase from the Fungus, Penicillium italicum, Isolated from Rotten Citrus Peel.	A β-glucosidase from Penicillium italicum was purified with a specific activity of 61.8 U/mg, using a chromatography system. The native form of the enzyme was an 88.5-kDa tetramer with a molecular mass of 354 kDa. Optimum activity was observed at pH 4.5 and 60℃, and the half-lives were 1,737, 330, 34, and 1 hr at 50, 55, 60, and 65℃, respectively. Its activity was inhibited by 47% by 5 mM Ni(2+). The enzyme exhibited hydrolytic activity for p-nitrophenyl-β-D-glucopyranoside (pNP-Glu), p-nitrophenyl-β-D-cellobioside, p-nitrophenyl-β-D-xyloside, and cellobiose, however, no activity was observed for p-nitrophenyl-β-D-lactopyranoside, p-nitrophenyl-β-D-galactopyranoside, carboxymetyl cellulose, xylan, and cellulose, indicating that the enzyme was a β-glucosidase. The k(cat)/K(m) (s(-1) mM(-1)) values for pNP-Glu and cellobiose were 15,770.4 mM and 6,361.4 mM, respectively. These values were the highest reported for β-glucosidases. Non-competitive inhibition of the enzyme by both glucose (K(i) = 8.9 mM) and glucono-δ-lactone (K(i) = 11.3 mM) was observed when pNP-Glu was used as the substrate. This is the first report of non-competitive inhibition of β-glucosidase by glucose and glucono-δ-lactone. 
9308367	19971006	Prog._Nucleic_Acid_Res._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Molecular biology of trehalose and the trehalases in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The present state of knowledge of the role of trehalose and trehalose hydrolysis catalyzed by trehalase (EC 3.2.1.28) in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is reviewed. Trehalose is believed to function as a storage carbohydrate because its concentration is high during nutrient limitations and in resting cells. It is also believed to function as a stress metabolite because its concentration increases during certain adverse environmental conditions, such as heat and toxic chemicals. The exact way trehalose may perform the stress function is not understood, and conditions exist under which trehalose accumulation and tolerance to certain stress situations cannot be correlated. Three trehalases have been described in S. cerevisiae: 1) the cytosolic neutral trehalase encoded by the NTH1 gene, and regulated by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation process, nutrients, and temperature; 2) the vacuolar acid trehalase encoded by the ATH1 gene, and regulated by nutrients; and 3) a putative trehalase Nth1p encoded by the NTH2 gene (homolog of the NTH1 gene) and regulated by nutrients and temperature. The neutral trehalase is responsible for intracellular hydrolysis of trehalose, in contrast to the acid trehalase, which is responsible for utilization of extracellular trehalose. The role of the putative trehalase Nth2p in trehalose metabolism is not known. The NTH1 and NTH2 genes are required for recovery of cells after heat shock at 50 degrees C, consistent with their heat inducibility and sequence similarity. Other stressors, such as toxic chemicals, also induce the expression of these genes. We therefore propose that the NTH1 and NTH2 genes have stress-related function and the gene products may be called stress proteins. Whether the stress function of the trehalase genes is linked to trehalose is not clear, and possible mechanisms of stress protective function of the trehalases are discussed. 
8555209	19960116	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Contribution of cutinase serine 42 side chain to the stabilization of the oxyanion transition state.	Cutinase from the fungus Fusarium solani pisi is a lipolytic enzyme able to hydrolyze both aggregated and soluble substrates. It therefore provides a powerful tool for probing the mechanisms underlying lipid hydrolysis. Lipolytic enzymes have a catalytic machinery similar to those present in serine proteinases. It is characterized by the triad Ser, His, and Asp (Glu) residues, by an oxyanion binding site that stabilizes the transition state via hydrogen bonds with two main chain amide groups, and possibly by other determinants. It has been suggested on the basis of a covalently bond inhibitor that the cutinase oxyanion hole may consist not only of two main chain amide groups but also of the Ser42 O gamma side chain. Among the esterases and the serine and the cysteine proteases, only Streptomyces scabies esterase, subtilisin, and papain, respectively, have a side chain residue which is involved in the oxyanion hole formation. The position of the cutinase Ser42 side chain is structurally conserved in Rhizomucor miehei lipase with Ser82 O gamma, in Rhizopus delemar lipase with Thr83 O gamma 1, and in Candida antartica B lipase with Thr40 O gamma 1. To evaluate the increase in the tetrahedral intermediate stability provided by Ser42 O gamma, we mutated Ser42 into Ala. Furthermore, since the proper orientation of Ser42 O gamma is directed by Asn84, we mutated Asn84 into Ala, Leu, Asp, and Trp, respectively, to investigate the contribution of this indirect interaction to the stabilization of the oxyanion hole. The S42A mutation resulted in a drastic decrease in the activity (450-fold) without significantly perturbing the three-dimensional structure. The N84A and N84L mutations had milder kinetic effects and did not disrupt the structure of the active site, whereas the N84W and N84D mutations abolished the enzymatic activity due to drastic steric and electrostatic effects, respectively. 
17487609	20070510	Nat._Prod._Res.	D016428 	In vitro hypoglycemic and antimicrobial activities of Senecio leucanthemifolius Poiret.	This study reports on the alpha-amylase inhibitory and antimicrobial activities of Senecio leucanthemifolius Poiret. Extracts of S. leucanthemifolius were tested for their antimicrobial and antifungal activities against seven different pathogenic microorganisms using the microdilution technique. The ethyl acetate extract exhibited a strong antibiotic activity against Staphylococcus aureus with a MIC value of 31.25 microg mL(-1), while the n-hexane extract showed a significant activity against dermatophytic fungi. S. leucanthemifolius extracts were tested also for their potential hypoglycemic activity through the in vitro inhibition of alpha-amylase. The dichloromethane extract inhibited alpha-amylase with a value of 56.6% at 0.05 mg mL(-1) and the n-butanol extract showed a value of 89.2% at 1 mg mL(-1). 
9383611	19970101	Crit._Rev._Biochem._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Coregulation of starch degradation and dimorphism in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the exemplar unicellular eukaryote, can only survive and proliferate in its natural habitats through constant adaptation within the constraints of a dynamic ecosystem. In every cell cycle of S. cerevisiae, there is a short period in the G1 phase of the cell cycle where "sensing" transpires; if a sufficient amount of fermentable sugars is available, the cells will initiate another round of vegetative cell division. When fermentable sugars become limiting, the yeast can execute the diauxic shift, where it reprograms its metabolism to utilize nonfermentable carbon sources. S. cerevisiae can also initiate the developmental program of pseudohyphal formation and invasive growth response, when essential nutrients become limiting. S. cerevisiae shares this growth form-switching ability with important pathogens such as the human pathogen, Candida albicans, and the corn smut pathogen Ustilago maydis. The pseudohyphal growth response of S. cerevisiae has mainly been implicated as a means for the yeast to search for nutrients. An important observation made was that starch-degrading S. cerevisiae strains have the added ability to form pseudohyphae and grow invasively into a starch-containing medium. More significantly, it was also shown that the STA1-3 genes encoding three glucoamylase isozymes responsible for starch hydrolysis in S. cerevisiae are coregulated with a gene, MUC1, essential for pseudohyphal and invasive growth. At least two putative transcriptional activators, Mss10p and Mss11p, are involved in this regulation. The Muc1p is a putative integral membrane-bound protein similar to mammalian mucin-like proteins that have been implicated in the ability of cancer cells to invade other tissues. This provided us with an excellent example of integrative control between nutrient sensing, signaling, and differential development. 
9092563	19970411	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulase induction in Trichoderma reesei by cellulose requires its own basal expression.	The induction of cellulases by cellulose, an insoluble polymer, in the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei is puzzling. We previously proposed a mechanism that is based on the presence of low levels of cellulase in the uninduced fungus; this basal cellulase activity would digest cellulose-releasing oligosaccharides that could enter the cell and trigger expression of cellulases. We now present experiments that lend further support to this model. We show here that transcripts of two members of the cellulase system, cbh1 and egl1, are present in uninduced T. reesei cells. These transcripts are induced at least 1100-fold in the presence of cellulose. We also show that a construct containing the hygromycin B resistance-encoding gene driven by the cbh1 promoter confers hygromycin B resistance to T. reesei cells grown in the absence of cellulose. Moreover, cellulose-induced production of the cbh1 transcript was suppressed when antisense RNA against three members of the cellulase system was expressed in vivo. Experiments are presented indicating that extracellular cellulase activity is the rate-limiting event in induction of synthesis of the cellulase transcripts by cellulose. The results reveal a critical requirement for basal expression of the cellulase system for induction of synthesis of its own transcripts by cellulose. 
12716988	20030430	Mol._Biol._Evol.	D016428 D013487 	Genome-wide survey for genes horizontally transferred from cellular organisms to baculoviruses.	The phylogeny of 13 viral species in the genera Granulovirus and Nucleopolyhedrovirus (family Baculoviridae) was reconstructed on the basis of 22 conserved protein families shared by all species, and a comprehensive homology search and phylogenetic analysis of the complete genomes of these viruses was used to test for horizontal gene transfer from cellular organisms. Statistically significant evidence of horizontal transfer was found in the case of six protein families (DNA ligase, ribonucleotide reductase 1, SNF2 global transactivator, inhibitor of apoptosis, chitinase, and UDP-glucosyltransferase). Three of these families are known to play key roles in the infection of insect hosts by these viruses. There was evidence that two of these (inhibitor of apoptosis and UDP-glucosyltransferase) were derived from the insect host. By contrast, the gene encoding chitinase in these viruses was evidently derived from a group of bacteria (the gamma subdivision of proteobacteria), which use chitinase to break down fungal chitins. 
12101302	20020709	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Two pectin lyase genes, pnl-1 and pnl-2, from Colletotrichum gloeosporioides f. sp. malvae differ in a cellulose-binding domain and in their expression during infection of Malva pusilla.	Two pectin lyase genes, designated pnl-1 and pnl-2, were cloned from Colletotrichum gloeosporioides f. sp. malvae, a pathogen of round-leaved mallow (Malva pusilla). pnl-1 was isolated using cDNA from infected plant material; pnl-2 was isolated using cDNA from 3-day-old mycelia grown in mallow-cell-wall extract (MCWE) broth. pnl-1 is the first pectinase gene described thus far to encode a cellulose-binding domain (CBD), which is common in cellulases and xylanases, whereas pnl-2 encodes a pectin lyase that lacks a CBD. In pure culture, pnl-1 expression could be detected when purified pectin or glucose was the sole carbon source, but not when MCWE was the sole carbon source. The lack of pnl-1 expression appeared to be due to gene repression by some unknown factor(s) in the cell-wall extract. In contrast, expression of pnl-2 was detected in cultures when MCWE, but not when purified pectin or glucose, was the sole carbon source. In infected tissue, detection of pnl-1 expression by Northern-blot hybridization and by RT-PCR began with the onset of the necrotrophic phase of infection. Expression ofpnl-2 was not detectable by Northern-blot hybridization, but was observed byRT-PCR in both the biotrophic and necrotrophic phases of infection. The differences between pnl-1 and pnl-2 (i.e. pnl-1 encoding a CBD and differences in the expression patterns of both genes) may be related to the requirements of C. gloeosporioides f. sp. malvae to be able to grow in host tissue under the different conditions present during the biotrophic and necrotrophic phases of infection. 
1934124	19910801	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	A genetic analysis of an alpha-amylase super-secretor in yeast; implications for the regulatory pathway.	Extracellular glucoamylase activity was increased by a gene, which is present in super-secretor, but absent in low-secretor, strains of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Genetic data indicated that this super-secretor gene is linked to the STA3 structural gene for glucoamylase. This gene appears to act specifically since it increased the secretion of glucoamylase but not of other secreted enzymes like acid phosphatase and invertase. 
22745025	20120630	Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	Secretome analysis of the fungus Trichoderma harzianum grown on cellulose.	Trichoderma harzianum is a mycoparasitic filamentous fungus that produces and secretes a wide range of extracellular hydrolytic enzymes used in cell wall degradation. Due to its potential in biomass conversion, T. harzianum draws great attention from biofuel and biocontrol industries and research. Here, we report an extensive secretome analysis of T. harzianum. The fungus was grown on cellulose medium, and its secretome was analyzed by a combination of enzymology, 2DE, MALDI-MS and -MS/MS (Autoflex II), and LC-MS/MS (LTQ-Orbitrap XL). A total of 56 proteins were identified using high-resolution MS. Interestingly, although cellulases were found, the major hydrolytic enzymes secreted in the cellulose medium were chitinases and endochitinases, which may reflect the biocontrol feature of T. harzianum. The glycoside hydrolase family, including chitinases (EC 3.2.1.14), endo-N-acetylglucosaminidases (EC 3.2.1.96), hexosaminidases (EC 3.2.1.52), galactosidases (EC 3.2.1.23), xylanases (EC 3.2.1.8), exo-1,3-glucanases (EC 3.2.1.58), endoglucanases (EC 3.2.1.4), xylosidases (EC 3.2.1.37), α-L-arabinofuranosidase (EC 3.2.1.55), N-acetylhexosaminidases (EC 3.2.1.52), and other enzymes represented 51.36% of the total secretome. Few representatives were classified in the protease family (8.90%). Others (17.60%) are mostly intracellular proteins. A considerable part of the secretome was composed of hypothetical proteins (22.14%), probably because of the absence of an annotated T. harzianum genome. The T. harzianum secretome composition highlights the importance of this fungus as a rich source of hydrolytic enzymes for bioconversion and biocontrol applications. 
24065288	20130926	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of an antifungal chitinase from Citrobacter freundii str. nov. haritD11.	The purpose of the research was to study the purification and partial characterization of antifungal alkaline chitinase from a newly isolated Citrobacter freundii haritD11. The enzyme was purified in a three-step procedure involving ammonium sulfate precipitation, dialysis, and Sephadex G-100 gel filtration chromatography. The enzyme was shown to have a relative high molecular weight of 64 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and was purified 7.3-fold with a yield of 18.8 %. It was most active at 35 °C, pH 8.0, with colloid chitin as substrate and was very stable at alkaline pH contradicting the characteristic that most of the bacterial chitinases are active at acidic pH. Further, the purified chitinase exhibited remarkable antifungal activity against pathogenic fungi Aspergillus flavus MTCC 2798 and Aspergillus niger MTCC 9652 showing diametric inhibition zones of 27 mm and 21 mm, respectively. 
22703989	20120619	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Ethanol and anaerobic conditions reversibly inhibit commercial cellulase activity in thermophilic simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (tSSF).	A previously developed mathematical model of low solids thermophilic simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (tSSF) with Avicel was unable to predict performance at high solids using a commercial cellulase preparation (Spezyme CP) and the high ethanol yield Thermoanaerobacterium saccharolyticum strain ALK2. The observed hydrolysis proceeded more slowly than predicted at solids concentrations greater than 50 g/L Avicel. Factors responsible for this inaccuracy were investigated in this study. Ethanol dramatically reduced cellulase activity in tSSF. At an Avicel concentration of 20 g/L, the addition of ethanol decreased conversion at 96 hours, from 75% in the absence of added ethanol down to 32% with the addition of 34 g/L initial ethanol. This decrease is much greater than expected based on hydrolysis inhibition results in the absence of a fermenting organism. The enhanced effects of ethanol were attributed to the reduced, anaerobic conditions of tSSF, which were shown to inhibit cellulase activity relative to hydrolysis under aerobic conditions. Cellulose hydrolysis in anaerobic conditions was roughly 30% slower than in the presence of air. However, this anaerobic inhibition was reversed by exposing the cellulase enzymes to air. This work demonstrates a previously unrecognized incompatibility of enzymes secreted by an aerobic fungus with the fermentation conditions of an anaerobic bacterium and suggests that enzymes better suited to industrially relevant fermentation conditions would be valuable. The effects observed may be due to inactivation or starvation of oxygen dependent GH61 activity, and manipulation or replacement of this activity may provide an opportunity to improve biomass to fuel process efficiency. 
3516795	19860101	Gene	D016428 D013486 D013487 	Primary structure of the maltase gene of the MAL6 locus of Saccharomyces carlsbergensis.	We have determined the complete nucleotide (nt) sequence of a 2937-bp DNA fragment containing the yeast maltase (EC 3.2.1.20) gene (MAL6S) as well as part of the contiguous maltose permease gene (MAL6T) from the MAL6 locus of Saccharomyces carlsbergensis. The MAL6S gene encodes an alpha-glucosidase that is required for the utilization of maltose as a carbon source by yeast. The 5' transcription initiation sites for both MAL6S and MAL6T were determined by primer extension experiments using reverse transcriptase. The sequence data show one major open reading frame (ORF) of 584 amino acids (aa) for maltase with a calculated Mr of 68 107, somewhat larger than the value of 63 000 previously determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) analysis. The nucleotide sequences upstream of both the MAL6S and MAL6T genes, which are divergently transcribed, show common structural features for the transcription initiation of yeast genes as well as signals required for their translation. The codon bias index shows that the MAL6S gene is moderately expressed. The possible significance of two 17-bp dyad symmetric sequences, found in the intergenic region of MAL6S and MAL6T, for the control of expression of these genes is also discussed. 
15214724	20040625	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 	Production of leucinostatins and nematicidal activity of Australian isolates of Paecilomyces lilacinus (Thom) Samson.	To evaluate the relationship between leucinostatin production by Paecilomyces lilacinus isolates and their biological activities. The nematicidal, parasitic and enzymatic activity of Australian P. lilacinus isolates were investigated. Nematicidal activities of culture filtrates were measured by mortality and inhibition of reproduction of Caenorhabditis elegans, whereas egg-parasitic activity was measured by colonization on Meloidogyne javanica. Enzymatic activities (protease and chitinase) were assayed on solid media. The results suggest that leucinostatins in P. lilacinus are indicators of nematicidal activity, whereas chitinase activity might be related to parasitism. Nematicidal activity of culture filtrates of Paecilomyces lilacinus strains related to their ability to produce leucinostatins. This is the first study describing the leucinostatins as nematicides. 
18031007	20071123	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and biochemical characterization of an antifungal peptide from Amaranthus hypochondriacus seeds.	An antifungal peptide, Ay-AMP, was isolated from Amaranthus hypochondriacus seeds by acidic extraction and then purified by reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography. The molecular mass of this peptide, as determined by mass spectrometry, is 3184 Da. The peptide belongs to the superfamily of chitin-binding proteins, containing a single cysteine/glycine-rich chitin-binding domain, and it was found that Ay-AMP degrades chitin. Ay-AMP inhibits the growth, at very low doses, of different pathogenic fungi, such as Candida albicans, Trichoderma sp., Fusarium solani, Penicillium chrysogenum, Geotrichum candidum, Aspergillus candidus, Aspergillus schraceus, and Alternaria alternata. Ay-AMP is very resistant to the effect of proteases and heating; however, it showed an antagonistic effect with CaCl2 and KCl. 
9612947	19980605	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Suppression of tobacco basic chitinase gene expression in response to colonization by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices.	A differentially displayed cDNA clone (MD17) was isolated from tobacco roots (nicotiana tabacum cv. Xanthi-nc) infected with the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus Glomus intraradices. The isolated DNA fragment exhibited a reduced level of expression in response to AM establishment and 90% identity with the 3' noncoding sequence of two basic chitinases (EC 3.2.1.14) from N. tabacum. Northern (RNA) blots and Western blots (immunoblots), probed with tobacco basic chitinase gene-specific probe and polyclonal antibodies raised against the chitinase enzyme, yielded hybridization patterns similar to those of MD17. Moreover, the up-regulation of the 32-kDa basic chitinase gene expression in tobacco roots by (1,2,3)-thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester (BTH) was less effective in mycorrhizal roots than in nonmycorrhizal controls. Suppression of endogenous basic chitinase (32-kDa) expression was also observed in transgenic mycorrhizal plants that constitutively express the 34-kDa basic chitinase A isoform. When plants were grown with an increased phosphate supply, no suppression of the 32-kDa basic chitinase was obtained. These findings indicate that during the colonization and establishment of G. intraradices in tobacco roots, expression of the basic chitinase gene is down-regulated at the mRNA level. 
2306111	19900201	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 	Purification and properties of xylanase from the thermophilic fungus, Humicola lanuginosa (Griffon and Maublanc) Bunce.	An extracellular xylanase was purified to homogeneity from the culture filtrate of the thermophilic fungus, Humicola lanuginosa (Griffon and Maublanc) Bunce and its properties were studied. A fourfold purification and a yield of 8% were achieved. The molecular weight of the protein was found to be 22,500 based on electrophoretic mobility and 29,000 by gel filtration behavior. The protein is rich in acidic amino acids, glycine and tyrosine, and poor in sulfur-containing amino acids. The kinetic properties of the enzyme are similar to those of other fungal xylanases. The enzyme shows high affinity toward larchwood xylan (Km = 0.91 mg/ml) and hydrolyzes only xylan. The enzyme becomes inactivated when stored for more than 2 months at -20 degrees C in the dry state. Such an inactivation has not been reported so far for any xylanase. Using chromatographic techniques, one species of protein differing from the native protein in charge but enzymatically active was isolated in low yields. However, a large molecular-weight species of the protein devoid of enzyme activity was isolated in substantial quantities and further characterized. Based on ultracentrifugation and gel electrophoretic studies, it was concluded that this species may be an aggregate of the native protein and that such an aggregation might be taking place on storage in the dry state at -20 degrees C, leading to loss in activity. 
9325167	19971023	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Five crucial carboxyl residues of 1,2-alpha-mannosidase from Aspergillus saitoi (A. phoenicis), a food microorganism, are identified by site-directed mutagenesis.	An acidic 1,2-alpha-mannosidase from fungus, Aspergillus saitoi (now designated Aspergillus phoenicis), is highly specific for 1,2-alpha-mannosidic linkage in the high-mannose type oligosaccharide at pH 5.0. The predicted amino acid sequence of several peptide regions, including aspartic acid and glutamic acid, bears striking similarities to 1,2-alpha-mannosidases from fungi, yeast and mouse. Active site determination of the enzyme expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells was performed by site-directed mutagenesis. Substitutions of Asp-269 to Glu and of the Glu-residues, Glu-273, Glu-411, Glu-414 and Glu-474, to Asp altered the drastic decrease of specific activities with Man alpha 1-2Man-OMe and Man9-GlcNAc2-PA as substrates and shifted the optimal pH of the mutant enzymes. From the present results, Asp-269 is probably in the ionized COO- form, whereas one of four glutamic acid residues, probably Glu-411, is the un-ionized COOH form according to the analogy of a plausible mechanism for lysozyme catalysis. It is assumed that three glutamic acid residues, Glu-273, Glu-414, and Glu-474, are probably binding sites of substrate. 
14756552	20040206	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Structural basis for the exocellulase activity of the cellobiohydrolase CbhA from Clostridium thermocellum.	Numerous bacterial and fungal organisms have evolved elaborate sets of modular glycoside hydrolases and similar enzymes aimed at the degradation of polymeric carbohydrates. Presently, on the basis of sequence similarity catalytic modules of these enzymes have been classified into 90 families. Representatives of a particular family display similar fold and catalytic mechanisms. However, within families distinctions occur with regard to enzymatic properties and type of activity against carbohydrate chains. Cellobiohydrolase CbhA from Clostridium thermocellum is a large seven-modular enzyme with a catalytic module belonging to family 9. In contrast to other representatives of that family possessing only endo- and, in few cases, endo/exo-cellulase activities, CbhA is exclusively an exocellulase. The crystal structures of the combination of the immunoglobulin-like module and the catalytic module of CbhA (Ig-GH9_CbhA) and that of an inactive mutant Ig-GH9_CbhA(E795Q) in complex with cellotetraose (CTT) are reported here. The detailed analysis of these structures reveals that, while key catalytic residues and overall fold are conserved in this enzyme and those of other family 9 glycoside hydrolases, the active site of GH9_CbhA is blocked off after the -2 subsite. This feature which is created by an extension and altered conformation of a single loop region explains the inability of the active site of CbhA to accommodate a long cellulose chain and to cut it internally. This altered loop region is responsible for the exocellulolytic activity of the enzyme. 
18595320	20080704	Acta_Microbiol_Immunol_Hung	D016428 D013485 	Lignocellulolytic enzymes profile during growth and fruiting of Pleurotus ostreatus on wheat straw and tree leaves.	Cultivation of two commercial Pleurotus ostreatus (oyster mushroom) strains was performed in plastic bags. Tree leaves appeared to be an excellent growth substrate for the conversion into fruiting bodies with biological efficiency of 108-118%. The level of enzyme activity was strongly regulated during the life cycle of mushrooms. However, despite the quantitative variations, each strain had a similar pattern of enzyme accumulation in fermentation of both substrates. Laccase and MnP activities were high during substrate colonization and declined rapidly during fruiting body development. On the contrary, in substrate colonization P. ostreatus expressed comparatively low activity of hydrolases. When primordia appeared, the activity of these enzymes sharply increased. Both cellulase and xylanase activity peaked at the mature fruiting body stage. When mushrooms shifted to the vegetative growth, the activity of ligninolytic enzymes again gradually increased, whereas the activity of hydrolases decreased. 
16346254	19830301	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Production and Characteristics of Raw Starch-Digesting Glucoamylase O from a Protease-Negative, Glycosidase-Negative Aspergillus awamori var. kawachi Mutant.	Production of a raw starch-digesting glucoamylase O (GA O) by protease-negative, glycosidase-negative mutant strain HF-15 of Aspergillus awamori var. kawachi was undertaken under submerged culture conditions. The purified GA O was electrophoretically homogeneous and similar to the parent glucoamylase I (GA I) in the hydrolysis curves toward gelatinized potato starch, raw starch, and glycogen and in its thermostability and pH stability, but it was different in molecular weight and carbohydrate content (250,000 and 24.3% for GA O, 90,000 and ca. 7% for GA I, respectively). The chitin-bound GA O hydrolyzed raw starch but the chitin-bound GA I failed to digest raw starch because chitin was adsorbed at the raw starch affinity site of the GA I molecule. The removal of the raw starch affinity site of GA O with subtilisin led to the formation of a modified GA O (molecular weight, 170,000), which hydrolyzed glycogen 100%, similar to GA O and GA I, and was adsorbed onto chitin and fungal cell wall but not onto raw starch, Avicel, or chitosan. The modified GA I (molecular weight, 83,000) derived by treatment with substilisin hydrolyzed glycogen up to only 80% and failed to be adsorbed onto any of the above polysaccharides. The N-bromosuccinimide-oxidized GA O lost its activity toward gelatinized and raw starches, but the abilities to be adsorbed onto raw starch and chitin were preserved. It was thus suggested that both the raw starch affinity site essential for raw starch digestion and the chitin-binding site specific for the binding with chitin in the cell wall could be different from the active site, located in the three respective positions in the GA O molecule. 
21742908	20110712	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	L-arabitol is the actual inducer of xylanase expression in Hypocrea jecorina (Trichoderma reesei).	The saprophytic fungus Hypocrea jecorina (anamorph, Trichoderma reesei) is an important native producer of hydrolytic enzymes, including xylanases. Regarding principles of sustainability, cheap and renewable raw materials, such as d-xylose (the backbone monomer of xylan), have been receiving increasing attention from industries. Recently, it was demonstrated that small (0.5 to 1 mM) amounts of d-xylose induce the highest expression of xylanase in H. jecorina. However, it was also reported that active metabolism of d-xylose is necessary for induction. In this report, we demonstrate that xylitol, the next intermediate in the pentose pathway after d-xylose, does not trigger transcription of xylanase-encoding genes in H. jecorina QM9414. The highest level of transcription of xylanolytic enzyme-encoding genes occurred in an xdh1 (encoding a xylitol dehydrogenase) deletion strain cultured in the presence of 0.5 mM d-xylose, suggesting that a metabolite upstream of xylitol is the inducer. The expression levels of xylanases in an xdh1-lad1 double-deletion strain were lower than that of an xdh1 deletion strain. This observation suggested that l-xylulose is not an inducer and led to the hypothesis that l-arabitol is the actual inducer of xylanase expression. A direct comparison of transcript levels following the incubation of the H. jecorina parental strain with various metabolites of the pentose pathway confirmed this hypothesis. In addition, we demonstrate that xyr1, the activator gene, is not induced in the presence of pentose sugars and polyols, regardless of the concentration used; instead, we observed low constitutive expression of xyr1. 
23782224	20130621	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of digested sludge-assimilating fungal strains and their potential applications.	Digested sludge (DS) is a major waste product of anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge and is resistant to biodegradation. In this study, we isolated and characterized DS-assimilating fungi from soil. We tried to isolate DS-assimilating strains by enrichment culture using DS as the nutrient source, but microbial growth was not observed in any culture. To eliminate the inhibitory effect of metals in DS on microbial growth, acid-treated DS was subsequently used for enrichment, and eight fungal strains were isolated from the subcultures. At least 10-30% reduction in sludge was observed after 1-week cultivation, and prolonged cultivation led to further sludge reduction. All isolates produced xylanase, chitinase and keratinase. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolates were Penicillium, Fusarium, Chaetomium, Cunninghamella, Neosartorya and Umbelopsis. Some isolates were suggested novel species. To the best of our knowledge, our study is the first to report the isolation of DS-assimilating strains. These isolates may be useful for commercial production of microbial enzymes using DS as the substrate. Because xylan, chitin and keratin in sludge-hyphae complexes are considered to be partially depolymerized, this material could also be utilized as a readily available fertilizer. 
10452542	19990819	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	The evolution of starch-binding domain.	Amylolytic enzymes belonging to three distinct families of glycosidases (13, 14, 15) contain the starch-binding domain (SBD) positioned almost exclusively at the C-terminus. Detailed analysis of all available SBD sequences from 43 different amylases revealed its independent evolutionary behaviour with regard to the catalytic domains. In the evolutionary tree based on sequence alignment of the SBDs, taxonomy is respected so that fungi and actinomycetes form their own separate parts surrounded by bacteria that are also clustered according to taxonomy. The only known N-terminal SBD from Rhizopus oryzae glucoamylase is on the longest branch separated from all C-terminal SBDs. The 3-dimensional (3-D) structures of fungal glucoamylase and bacterial CGTase SBDs are compared and used to discuss the interesting SBD evolution. 
20624677	20100714	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Ethanol production via in situ fungal saccharification and fermentation of mild alkali and steam pretreated corn fiber.	The effect of mild alkali and steam pretreatments on fungal saccharification and sequential simultaneous-saccharification and fermentation (SSF) of corn fiber to ethanol was studied. The corn fiber was pretreated with: (i) 2% NaOH (w/w) at 30 degrees C for 2h and (ii) steaming at 100 degrees C for 2h. Ethanol yields were 2.6g, 2.9g and 5.5g ethanol/100g of corn fiber, respectively, for Phanerochaete chrysosporium, Gloeophyllum trabeum and Trichoderma reesei saccharification and sequential SSFs. SSF with commercial cellulase enzyme - Spezyme-CP had 7.7g ethanol/100g corn fiber. Mild alkali pretreatment resulted in higher glucose yields following fungal saccharification of corn fiber. However, the ethanol yields were comparatively similar for untreated and mild alkali pretreated corn fiber. Solid-substrate fermentation of corn fiber with fungi can be improved to either eliminate or reduce the dosage of commercial cellulase enzymes during SSF. 
10913977	20000729	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Thatch biodegradation and antifungal activities of two lignocellulolytic Streptomyces strains in laboratory cultures and in golf green turfgrass.	The use of lignocellulolytic Streptomyces spp. as biological agents, to enhance thatch degradation in turf and to slow its rate of accumulation while controlling fungal growth in the thatch layer, was studied. In flask scale studies, two lignocellulolytic Streptomyces violaceusniger (= hygroscopicus) strains (YCED9 and WYE53) decomposed thatch (> 30% dry weight) over a 12-week incubation period. Biodegradation was accompanied by production of extracellular cellulases, xylanases, and peroxidases. The accumulation of the polymeric, water-soluble lignin degradation intermediate acid, precipitable polymeric lignin (APPL), was also observed. Residual thatch from 12-week-old cultures had an increased lignin-to-carbohydrate ratio, an indication that although lignin was metabolized, carbohydrates were preferential carbon sources for these actinomycetes. A spore-containing soluble dry powder formulation was used as an inoculum in an in situ field experiment. This formulation was maintained in storage at 4 degrees C for over two years without viability loss. Results from the golf green experiment showed that although treated thatch layers in established greens were not appreciably reduced over the course of one summer, the Streptomyces were active and maintained their populations within the thatch, while fungal growth was suppressed as compared to controls. The results show that treatment of turfgrass with these Streptomyces may be useful for the long-term control of fungal populations within the thatch. Longer field studies are required to assess the long-term potential for also controlling thatch build-up and fungal pathogens. 
7925275	19940915	EMBO_J.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	DNA polymerase alpha associated protein P1, a murine homolog of yeast MCM3, changes its intranuclear distribution during the DNA synthetic period.	We isolated a murine gene for the DNA polymerase alpha associated protein P1, which shares high homology with the budding yeast MCM3 protein, which is a member of a protein family involved in the early event of DNA replication having a putative DNA-dependent ATPase motif. Using a polyclonal anti-P1 antibody raised against a beta-galactosidase-P1 fusion protein, we identified at least two forms of P1 protein in the nucleus of a mouse cell line, an underphosphorylated form that was associated with a particular nuclear structure and a hyperphosphorylated form loosely bound to the nucleus. During progression through S phase, P1 disappeared, first from the euchromatic region, then from the heterochromatic region, apparently in parallel with temporally ordered DNA replication. Thus, it is likely that the underphosphorylated P1 is dissociated from the nuclear structure after DNA replication by cell cycle-dependent phosphorylation. This is the first direct observation of a protein whose behavior is consistent with that of a hypothetical factor which restricts the chromatin to replicate once per cell cycle in higher eukaryotes. 
19395258	20090428	Bioorg._Med._Chem._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Computer-aided rational molecular design of argifin-derivatives with increased inhibitory activity against chitinase B from Serratia marcescens.	Argifin, a novel pentapeptide chitinase inhibitor isolated from Gliocladium fungal culture, is a promising candidate for the development of new fungicides, insecticides, and anti-asthma medications. In this study, we undertook rational molecular design of argifin-derivatives and tested them against chitinase B from Serratia marcescens (SmChiB). The work involved molecular dynamics simulation with explicit water molecules, the molecular docking calculation, and free-energy analysis using the molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area method. The custom-designed derivatives were synthesized via effective solid phase synthesis, developed recently in our laboratory, and their inhibitory activities were measured against SmChiB. Finally, we identified and obtained a derivative which exhibited 28-fold more inhibition than argifin itself, a compound in which the d-Ala(5) of argifin was replaced with d-Leu and the 4-benzylpiperdine was attached to l-Asp(4). 
24425396	20140116	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Production of cellulolytic enzymes from theXylaria andHypoxylon species of xylariaceae.	Eighteen strains of xylariaceous fungi have been screened for higher activities of cellulolytic enzymes,Trichoderma reesei QM 9414 was also examined for comparison. Strains ofXylaria anisopleura andX. regalis had higher endocellulase (CMCase) and exocellulase (Avicelase) activities after 2 weeks' incubation.Hypoxylon stygium produced the highest activity of β-glucosidase 3 days after inoculation. The optimum pH for these cellulolytic enzymes was approx. 5.0 and the optimum temperatures ranged from 37 to 50°C. A mixed culture process usingT. reesei QM 9414 andH. stygium was developed to obtain enhanced synthesis of cellulase. β-Glucosidase activities in the mixed culture increased within 48h whenH. stygium was introduced after 24h.  
20662765	20100729	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	Role of a PA14 domain in determining substrate specificity of a glycoside hydrolase family 3 β-glucosidase from Kluyveromyces marxianus.	β-Glucosidase from Kluyveromyces marxianus (KmBglI) belongs to the GH3 (glycoside hydrolase family 3). The enzyme is particularly unusual in that a PA14 domain (pf07691), for which a carbohydrate-binding role has been claimed, is inserted into the catalytic core sequence. In the present study, we determined the enzymatic properties and crystal structure of KmBglI in complex with glucose at a 2.55 A (1 A=0.1 nm) resolution. A striking characteristic of KmBglI was that the enzyme activity is essentially limited to disaccharides, and when trisaccharides were used as the substrates the activity was drastically decreased. This chain-length specificity is in sharp contrast with the preferred action on oligosaccharides of barley β-D-glucan glucohydrolase (ExoI), which does not have a PA14 domain insertion. The structure of subsite (-1) of KmBglI is almost identical with that of Thermotoga neapolitana β-glucosidase and is also similar to that of ExoI, however, the structures of subsite (+1) significantly differ among them. In KmBglI, the loops extending from the PA14 domain cover the catalytic pocket to form subsite (+1), and hence simultaneously become a steric hindrance that could limit the chain length of the substrates to be accommodated. Mutational studies demonstrated the critical role of the loop regions in determining the substrate specificity. The active-site formation mediated by the PA14 domain of KmBglI invokes α-complementation of β-galactosidase exerted by its N-terminal domain, to which the PA14 domain shows structural resemblance. The present study is the first which reveals the structural basis of the interaction between the PA14 domain and a carbohydrate. 
9858984	19981222	Aviakosm_Ekolog_Med	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Immobilized catalase in water purification systems].	The results of studies on producing the biocatalyst based on catalase immobilized in the fibers from triacetate are presented. The catalase producer is Penicillium fungus. Catalase was produced by precipitation with the use of ethyl alcohol from the cultural fluid with separate and unseparate mycelium. The highest activity of catalase in the cultural fluid is seen on the nutrient medium containing 4% of carbon source. For immobilization the water solution of enzyme was concentrated in the vacuum-rotor evaporator at temperature of 25 degrees C. The enzyme was included in the structure of fibers during the process of their formation. Of the fiber-producing polymers (cellulose triacetate, chlorine, polysulphone) the most enzymatic activity has the catalase-containing fibers derived from the cellulose triacetate, in this case, the fine fibers of biocatalyst have the higher specific activity. It is established that the fibers obtained by using catalase of microbiological origin possess high stability and their activity does not practically change in the aqueous environment. The unpurified catalase is one and a half higher than at purified catalase. Under laboratory conditions there turned out the experimental batches of fibers and there conducted their endurance tests. Catalase included in cellulase triacetate has effectively functioned during a period of 2 years purifying the distilled water containing 50 mg/l of hydrogen peroxide. 
21273791	20110129	J._Mol._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning of a gene encoding β-glucosidase from Chaetomium thermophilum CT2 and its expression in Pichia pastoris.	A new thermostable β-glucosidase gene (bgl) from Chaetomium thermophilum CT2 was cloned, sequenced and expressed. The full-length DNA of bgl was 3,101 bp and included three introns. The full-length cDNA contained an open reading frame of 2,604-bp nucleotides, encoding 867 amino acids with a potential secretion signal. The C. thermophilum CT2 β-glucosidase gene was functionally expressed in Pichia pastoris. The purified recombinant β-glucosidase was a 119-kDa glycoprotein with an optimum catalytic activity at pH 5.0 and 60°C. The enzyme was stable at 50°C, and retained 67.7% activity after being kept at 60°C for 1 h; the half-time of the enzyme at 65°C was approximately 55 min, and even retained 29.7% activity after incubation at 70°C for 10 min. 
8245017	19931205	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Human cartilage gp-39, a major secretory product of articular chondrocytes and synovial cells, is a mammalian member of a chitinase protein family.	One of the major secreted proteins of human articular chondrocytes in monolayer or explant culture and of synovial fibroblasts is a glycoprotein with an apparent molecular weight of approximately 39,000, referred to as human cartilage glycoprotein-39 (HC gp-39). The protein was purified, and its complete cDNA sequence was determined. It contained an open reading frame coding for a 383-amino acid long peptide. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with known sequences revealed that HC gp-39 contained regions displaying significant homology with a group of bacterial and fungal chitinases and a similar enzyme found in the nematode, Brugia malayi. In addition significant homologies were observed with three mammalian secretory proteins of as yet unknown function, suggesting that a related protein family exists in mammals. The human protein does not possess any glycosidic activity against chitinase substrates, arguing against any function as an endoglycosidase with specificity for N-acetylglucosamine. Analysis by Northern blotting and by reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction showed mRNA for HC gp-39 to be present in human articular chondrocytes as well is in liver, while mRNA was undetectable in muscle tissues, lung, pancreas, mononuclear cells, or fibroblasts. Neither the protein nor mRNA for HC gp-39 was detectable in normal newborn or adult human articular cartilage obtained at surgery, while mRNA for HC gp-39 was detectable both in synovial specimens and in cartilage obtained from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. These observations suggest that the expression of HC gp-39 may be related to a response of these cells to an altered tissue environment. 
21706286	20110628	Mycopathologia	D023362 D016428 	Rapid real-time PCR assay for culture and tissue identification of Geomyces destructans: the etiologic agent of bat geomycosis (white nose syndrome).	Geomyces destructans is the etiologic agent of bat geomycosis, commonly referred to as white nose syndrome (WNS). This infection has caused severe morbidity and mortality in little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus) and has also spread to other bat species with significant decline in the populations. Currently, G. destructans infection is identified by culture, ITS-PCR, and histopathology. We hypothesized that a real-time PCR assay would considerably improve detection of G. destructans in bats. The 100 bp sequence of the Alpha-L-Rhamnosidase gene was validated as a target for real-time PCR. The assay sensitivity was determined from serial dilution of DNA extracted from G. destructans conidia (5 × 10(-1)-5 × 10(7)), and the specificity was tested using DNA from 30 closely and distantly related fungi and 5 common bacterial pathogens. The real-time PCR assay was highly sensitive with detection limit of two G. destructans conidia per reaction at 40 PCR cycles. The assay was also highly specific as none of the other fungal or bacterial DNA cross-reacted in the real-time PCR assay. One hundred and forty-seven bat tissue samples, suspected of infection with G. destructans, were used to compare the real-time PCR assay to other methods employed for the detection of G. destructans. Real-time PCR was highly sensitive with 80 of 147 (55%) samples testing positive for G. destructans DNA. In comparison, histopathology examination revealed 64/147 (44%) positive samples. The internal transcribed spacer (ITS)-PCR yielded positive amplicon for G. destructans from 37 tissue samples (25%). The least sensitive assay was the fungal culture with only 17 tissue samples (12%) yielding G. destructans in culture. The data suggested that the real-time PCR assay is highly promising for rapid, sensitive, and specific identification of G. destructans. Further trials and inter-laboratory comparisons of this novel assay are recommended to improve the diagnosis of bat geomycosis. 
17849220	20070913	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 	Flavonoid profiling among wild type and related GM wheat varieties.	Pleiotropic effects are one of the main concerns regarding genetically modified organisms (GMOs). This includes unintended side effects of the transgene or its genome insertion site on the regulation of other endogenous genes, which could potentially cause the accumulation of different secondary metabolites that may have not only an impact on diet as repeatedly worried by the public but also on the environment. Regarding amount and possible environmental effects, flavonoids represent the most prominent group of secondary metabolites in wheat. Many flavonoids function as signalling or defence molecules. We used a robust and reproducible analytical method to compare the flavonoid content of genetically modified (GM) wheat (Triticum aestivum L., Gramineae) expressing genes that confer increased fungal resistance with their non-GM siblings. The transgenes provide either a broad-spectrum fungal defence (chitinase/glucanase from barley) or bunt-specific resistance by a viral gene (KP4). Significant differences in flavonoid composition were found between different wheat varieties whereas different lines of GM wheat with increased antifungal resistance showed only minor differences in their flavonoid composition relative to their non-GM siblings. In a field test, no significant differences were detectable between infected and non-infected wheat of the same variety regardless of the presence of the transgene. Our results are in agreement with the hypothesis that the transgenes we used to increase wheat defence to fungal pathogens do not interfere with the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway. More significantly, the genetic background resulting from conventional breeding has a direct impact on the biological composition of flavonoids, and thus possibly on the environment. 
8474449	19930501	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Cell cycle regulation of the yeast Cdc7 protein kinase by association with the Dbf4 protein.	Yeast Cdc7 protein kinase and Dbf4 protein are both required for the initiation of DNA replication at the G1/S phase boundary of the mitotic cell cycle. Cdc7 kinase function is stage-specific in the cell cycle, but total Cdc7 protein levels remained unchanged. Therefore, regulation of Cdc7 function appears to be the result of posttranslational modification. In this study, we have attempted to elucidate the mechanism responsible for achieving this specific execution point of Cdc7. Cdc7 kinase activity was shown to be maximal at the G1/S boundary by using either cultures synchronized with alpha factor or Cdc- mutants or with inhibitors of DNA synthesis or mitosis. Therefore, Cdc7 kinase is regulated by a posttranslational mechanism that ensures maximal Cdc7 activity at the G1/S boundary, which is consistent with Cdc7 function in the cell cycle. This cell cycle-dependent regulation could be the result of association with the Dbf4 protein. In this study, the Dbf4 protein was shown to be required for Cdc7 kinase activity in that Cdc7 kinase activity is thermolabile in vitro when extracts prepared from a temperature-sensitive dbf4 mutant grown under permissive conditions are used. In vitro reconstitution assays, in addition to employment of the two-hybrid system for protein-protein interactions, have demonstrated that the Cdc7 and Dbf4 proteins interact both in vitro and in vivo. A suppressor mutation, bob1-1, which can bypass deletion mutations in both cdc7 and dbf4 was isolated. However, the bob1-1 mutation cannot bypass all events in G1 phase because it fails to suppress temperature-sensitive cdc4 or cdc28 mutations. This indicates that the Cdc7 and Dbf4 proteins act at a common point in the cell cycle. Therefore, because of the common point of function for the two proteins and the fact that the Dbf4 protein is essential for Cdc7 function, we propose that Dbf4 may represent a cyclin-like molecule specific for the activation of Cdc7 kinase. 
22052232	20111105	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D016428 D013485 	Production of cellulase enzymes during the solid-state fermentation of empty palm fruit bunch fiber.	Penicillium verruculosum COKE4E is a fungal strain isolated from bituminous coal. The microorganism cultivated in a minimal medium supplemented with Avicel, carboxymethylcellulose, and oat spelt xylan produced cellulase enzymes as exhibiting carboxymethylcellulase (CMCase), Avicelase, xylanase, and cellobiosidase activities. In this study, the productivity of the extracellular enzymes in the strain was evaluated by using empty palm fruit bunch fiber (EPFBF), a lignocellulosic biomass, as a substrate for solid-state bioconversion. The highest cellulase activities were observed after 6 days of fermentation at pH 6.0 and 30 °C. The enzymes were secreted as cellulosomes for the degradation of EPFBF as a sole carbon source. Focused ion beam analysis showed that P. verruculosum COKE4E produced cellulolytic enzymes that were able to effectively biodegrade EPFBF during solid-state fermentation. In this process, 6.5 U of CMCase, 6.8 U of Avicelase, and 8.8 U of xylanase per gram of dry solid EPFBF were produced. These results demonstrate that EPFBF may be a potential raw material in solid-state fermentation for the production of cellulase enzymes to be used for biofuel production. 
20565973	20100623	BMC_Genomics	D016428 D013486 	Transcriptional responses in honey bee larvae infected with chalkbrood fungus.	Diseases and other stress factors working synergistically weaken honey bee health and may play a major role in the losses of bee populations in recent years. Among a large number of bee diseases, chalkbrood has been on the rise. We present here the experimental identification of honey bee genes that are differentially expressed in response to infection of honey bee larvae with the chalkbrood fungus, Ascosphaera apis. We used cDNA-AFLP Technology to profile transcripts in infected and uninfected bee larvae. From 64 primer combinations, over 7,400 transcriptionally-derived fragments were obtained A total of 98 reproducible polymorphic cDNA-AFLP fragments were excised and sequenced, followed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis of these and additional samples.We have identified a number of differentially-regulated transcripts that are implicated in general mechanisms of stress adaptation, including energy metabolism and protein transport. One of the most interesting differentially-regulated transcripts is for a chitinase-like enzyme that may be linked to anti-fungal activities in the honey bee larvae, similarly to gut and fat-body specific chitinases found in mosquitoes and the red flour beetle. Surprisingly, we did not find many components of the well-characterized NF-kappaB intracellular signaling pathways to be differentially-regulated using the cDNA-AFLP approach. Therefore, utilizing qRT-PCR, we probed some of the immune related genes to determine whether the lack of up-regulation of their transcripts in our analysis can be attributed to lack of immune activation or to limitations of the cDNA-AFLP approach. Using a combination of cDNA-AFLP and qRT-PCR analyses, we were able to determine several key transcriptional events that constitute the overall effort in the honey bee larvae to fight natural fungal infection. Honey bee transcripts identified in this study are involved in critical functions related to transcriptional regulation, apoptotic degradation of ubiquitinated proteins, nutritional regulation, and RNA processing. We found that immune regulation of the anti-fungal responses in honey bee involves highly coordinated activation of both NF-kappaB signaling pathways, leading to production of anti-microbial peptides. Significantly, activation of immune responses in the infected bee larvae was associated with down-regulation of major storage proteins, leading to depletion of nutritional resources. 
18229890	20080131	Pest_Manag._Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Host perception and signal transduction studies in wild-type Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei and a quinoxyfen-resistant mutant implicate quinoxyfen in the inhibition of serine esterase activity.	Quinoxyfen is a potent and effective fungicide, hitherto considered to control powdery mildew disease by perturbing signal transduction during early germling differentiation. The aim of this paper is to understand the mode of action of quinoxyfen by comparing the perception of host-derived signals and signal relay in a wild-type Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei EM Marchal (Bgh) (WT/IM82) and a quinoxyfen-resistant field isolate (QR/2B11). QR/2B11 germinates more promiscuously on host-like and artificial surfaces than the quinoxyfen-sensitive WT/IM82. The pivotal role of host cuticle deprivation in the formation of hooked appressorial germ tubes (hAGTs) in WT/IM82 and a dramatic drop in germling differentiation in the presence of the mildewicide are demonstrated. QR/2B11 strain shows a dependence on host cuticle-like features for hAGT formation but no significant difference between germling differentiation in the presence or absence of quinoxyfen. PKC-inhibitor Ro 318220 induces morphological changes similar to those seen in quinoxyfen-treated germlings. PKC1 transcript accumulation is equivalently upregulated by quinoxyfen in QR/2B11 and WT/IM82 strains, but Bgh cutinase CUT1 transcript is 8 times more abundant in QR/2B11 conidia than in WT/IM82 conidia. Quinoxyfen inhibits serine esterase activity in WT/IM82, but not in QR/2B11. Collectively, these data suggest that quinoxyfen interferes with the perception of host-derived signals required for full germling differentiation, and that QR/2B11 bypasses the need for such signals. Moreover, quinoxyfen appears to target serine esterase activity, with a downstream perturbation in signal transduction; this represents the first demonstrable biochemical difference between the quinoxyfen-resistant and -sensitive isolates. 
16322512	20051203	Genetics	D003160 D016428 D013485 	zds1, a novel gene encoding an ortholog of Zds1 and Zds2, controls sexual differentiation, cell wall integrity and cell morphology in fission yeast.	While screening for genes that reverse the sporulation-deficient phenotype of the ras1delta diploid Schizosaccharomyces pombe strain, we identified zds1. This gene shares sequence homology with the ZDS1 and ZDS2 genes from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which appear to be involved in multiple cellular events. Expression of Zds1 in ras1delta diploid cells elevated their sporulation rate from 0.3 to 11.2%. Expression of the Zds1 C-terminal region increased the sporulation rate further (to 21.9%) while introduction of the Zds1 N-terminal region had no effect. zds1 expression did not induce sporulation in strains with mutations in genes participating in the downstream MAP kinase cascade. The zds1-disrupted strain is sensitive to CaCl2, and this effect is suppressed by the C-terminal region of Zds1. The growth of the zds1delta strain is markedly inhibited by cold temperatures, while its viability decreased in the stationary phase. Moreover, the zds1delta strain is round in shape and very sensitive to zymolyase, and its cell wall becomes thicker than that of wild type. Thus, zds1 must be required to maintain cell wall integrity. The Zds1-GFP fusion protein localized to the cytosol, the septum, and the cell cortex. Its localization in the septum was dependent on its C-terminal region. Overexpression of the C-terminal region of Zds1 induced multi-septa and abnormal zygotes. We propose that the C-terminal region is the functional domain of Zds1 while the N-terminal region is a negative regulatory region. Thus, Zds1 is involved in multiple cellular events in fission yeast, including sexual differentiation, Ca2+ tolerance, cell wall integrity, viability in the stationary phase, and cell morphology. 
9258674	19970801	Genetics	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Constitutive mutations of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae MAL-activator genes MAL23, MAL43, MAL63, and mal64.	We report the sequence of several MAL-activator genes, including inducible, constitutive, and noninducible alleles of MAL23, MAL43, MAL63, and mal64. Constitutive alleles of MAL23 and MAL43 vary considerably from inducible alleles in their C-terminal domain, with many of the alterations clustered and common to both alleles. The 27 alterations from residues 238-461 of Mal43-C protein are sufficient for constitutivity, but the minimal number of alterations needed for the constitutive phenotype could not be determined. The sequence of mal64, a nonfunctional homologue of MAL63, revealed that Mal64p is 85% identical to Mal63p. Two mutations that activate mal64 and cause constitutivity are nonsense mutations resulting in truncated proteins of 306 and 282 residues. We conclude that the C-terminal region of the MAL-activator, from residues 283-470, contains a maltose-responsive negative regulatory domain, and that extensive mutation or deletion of the entire region causes loss of the negative regulatory function. Additionally, certain sequence elements in the region appear to be necessary for efficient induction of the full-length Mal63 activator protein. These studies highlight the role of ectopic recombination as an important mechanism of mutagenesis of the telomere-associated family of MAL loci. 
11996833	20020509	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Studies on the glycosylation of wild-type and mutant forms of Aspergillus niger pectin methylesterase.	Pectin methylesterase (PME) is one of a number of enzymes released by the fungus Aspergillus niger that are involved in the degradation of specific plant cell-wall structures. PME is a glycoprotein with three potential sites for N-linked glycosylation. The glycosylation may affect the hydrolytic activity or the substrate specificity of PME. In this work, we investigate first the structures and the attachment sites of the glycans present on recombinant wild-type PME. Further, a series of PME mutants was created in which the three potential N-linked glycosylation sites were eliminated in all possible combinations. The glycosylation of the mutants and their activities were then studied. Mass spectrometric techniques tailored for carbohydrate analysis were applied to both characterize the glycan structures and to determine the specific sites of attachment. High mannose structures with variable numbers of mannose were found on the wild-type, as well as the mutant forms. Studies using the mutants suggest that glycosylation does not strongly influence the activity. Whether it may affect the substrate specify of the enzyme is unknown, and that aspect will be explored in future work. 
12892640	20030802	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning, characterization, and expression of a cDNA encoding an endochitinase gene from the mycoparasite Stachybotrys elegans.	Stachybotrys elegans is a mycoparasite of the soilborne plant pathogenic fungus Rhizoctonia solani. The mycoparasitic activity of S. elegans is correlated with the production of cell wall degrading enzymes such as chitinases. This report details the cloning by RACE-PCR and characterization of a full-length cDNA clone, sechi44, that appears to encode an extracellular endochitinase. An analysis of the sechi44 sequence indicates that this gene contains a 1269-bp ORF and encodes a 423-aa polypeptide. The SECHI44 protein has a calculated molecular weight of 44.1kDa and pI of 5.53. Since the SECHI44 protein also appears to encode a signal peptide, an extracellular location for the corresponding protein is predicted. Comparison of SECHI44 sequence with known sequences of fungal endochitinases revealed that SECHI44 is grouped with endochitinases from other mycoparasites. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed an elevated level of expression of sechi44 (21-fold) in chitin-rich (induced) as compared to no-carbon (non-induced) culture conditions. In dual culture, the temporal expression of sechi44 increased after 2 days of contact with R. solani, reaching a 10-fold increase after 9 days, followed by a decrease to basic expression level at 12 days. Interestingly, inhibition of sechi44 expression was observed when S. elegans hyphae were in close proximity with R. solani hyphae. 
16233017	20051020	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 	Optimization of xylanase production by Melanocarpus albomyces IIS68 in solid state fermentation using response surface methodology.	Xylanase production by the thermophilic fungus, Melanocarpus albomyces IIS68, during solid state fermentation of wheat straw was studied and the effects of various variables were observed. Using the response surface methodology and the multivariant statistical approach, the optimum levels of the variables affecting xylanase production were determined. The optimum levels of the variables were 600-850 microm particle size, 43 h inoculum age, 1.37% Tween 80, 86% initial moisture content, 5.1% urea, 0.74% yeast extract and a harvest time of 96 h. Under these optimized conditions, xylanase activity of 7760 U/g initial dry substrate was obtained which was in very good agreement with the value predicted by the quadratic model (7890 U/g initial dry substrate). 
16226332	20051018	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Identification of secreted proteins of Aspergillus oryzae associated with growth on solid cereal substrates.	Filamentous growth of Aspergillus oryzae on solid cereal substrates involves secretion of substrate converting enzymes and a solid substrate specific polarised hyphal growth phenotype. To identify proteins produced under these specific conditions, the extracts of A. oryzae grown on wheat-based media were analysed using N-terminal sequence analysis. In a submerged wheat-based growth medium of A. oryzae, besides alpha-amylase, also an arabinosidase and xylanase were abundantly produced. In the extracts of A. oryzae grown on wheat-based solid substrate besides alpha-amylase and chitinase, two new proteins of 16 and 27 kDa were identified. These hypothetical proteins showed only close homologies to filamentous fungal proteins. 
12561199	20030204	Sheng_Wu_Gong_Cheng_Xue_Bao	D016428 	[Purification and characterization of antifungal proteins in triticale seed].	Using Trichoderma as an indicative fungus, three antifungal proteins in Triticale Zhongsi 237 seed were purified and characterized. These protein components were considered to be a new Class II chitinase and two kinds of beta-1, 3-glucanases. Chitinase molecular mass was 30.5 kD and enzyme activity was maximal at pH 6.0 and 37 degrees C. Two beta-glucanases molecular masses were 51 kD and 23 kD. N-terminal amino acid sequences of Triticale chitinase share high homology with barley chitinase. In some conditions, the chitinase and beta-glucanases all had strong antifungal activity and were able to inhibit Trichoderma growth synergistically. Moreover, the chitinase and beta-1, 3-glucanases were able to inhibit powdery mildew growth on detached susceptible wheat leaves. 
19721873	20090902	Commun_Integr_Biol	D016428 	Heterotrimeric G-protein signaling and light response: Two signaling pathways coordinated for optimal adjustment to nature.	Almost all creatures have invented sophisticated mechanisms to adjust their developmental and metabolic processes to the changing light intensities in day and night. Recent findings suggest that one such mechanism is signaling via heterotrimeric G-proteins.1 The Trichoderma reesei (anamorph of Hypocrea jecorina) G-alpha subunit gene gna3 was found to be responsive to light and influenced by the light regulatory protein ENVOY.2 GNA3 significantly impacts regulation of cellulase gene expression only in light.1 While the exact mechanism of this regulation remains to be determined, first hints point to a regulation at the transcriptional level, since we observed light induced complex formation within the gna3 promotor. At least some of the components of this putatively regulatory protein complex also bind to the env1-promotor. These data indicate that the signal related by GNA3 is of light-dependent significance for H. jecorina and that the pathway of heterotrimeric G-protein signaling may be a target of the light perception machinery in fungi. 
19327384	20090331	Biochimie	D016428 D013485 	Transglycosylating and hydrolytic activities of the beta-mannosidase from Trichoderma reesei.	A purified beta-mannosidase (EC 3.2.1.25) from the fungus Trichoderma reesei has been identified as a member of glycoside hydrolase family 2 through mass spectrometry analysis of tryptic peptides. In addition to hydrolysis, the enzyme catalyzes substrate transglycosylation with p-nitrophenyl beta-mannopyranoside. Structures of the major and minor products of this reaction were identified by NMR analysis as p-nitrophenyl mannobiosides and p-nitrophenyl mannotriosides containing beta-(1-->4) and beta-(1-->3) linkages. The rate of donor substrate hydrolysis increased in presence of acetonitrile and dimethylformamide, while transglycosylation was weakly suppressed by these organic solvents. Differential ultraviolet spectra of the protein indicate that a rearrangement of the hydrophobic environment of the active site following the addition of the organic solvents may be responsible for this hydrolytic activation. 
18467877	20080510	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Synergistic interactions between chitinase ChiCW and fungicides against plant fungal pathogens.	Antifungal activity of ChiCW and synergistic interactions between ChiCW with fungicides were investigated. Conidial germinations of phytopathogenic fungi, Alternaria brassicicola, Botrytis elliptica, and Colletotrichum gloeoporioides, were inhibited by ChiCW but A. longipes was not. In addition, ChiCW showed synergistic effect with fungicides Switch (cyprodinil+fludioxonil) and tebuconazole to inhibit fungal conidial germinations. The level of synergism of ChiCW with tebuconazole was higher than that with Switch. The results indicate that ChiCW may exhibit a higher level of synergism with fungicides that have a primary effect upon membranes. 
11683266	20011031	Mol._Genet._Genomics	D016428 D013485 	A defined level of protein disulfide isomerase expression is required for optimal secretion of thaumatin by Aspegillus awamori.	Thaumatin, a 22-kDa protein containing eight disulfide bonds, is secreted by the filamentous fungus Aspergillus awamori at levels which are dependent upon the extent of overexpression of protein disulfide isomerase (PDIA). Additional copies of the PDIA-encoding gene pdiA were introduced into a strain of A. awamori that expresses a cassette encoding thaumatin. Transformants with different levels of pdiA mRNA and measured PDIA levels were chosen for examination of the impact that PDIA levels had on thaumatin secretion. The secretion of two native proteins, alpha-amylase and acid phosphatase, was also examined in relation to varying levels of PDIA. Over a range of PDIA levels of 1-8, relative to the native level in strains with just one copy of the pdiA gene, the fraction of alpha-amylase and acid phosphatase in the total secreted protein was unaffected. In contrast, a peak level of thaumatin, about 5-fold higher than in the strain with one copy of pdiA, was found in strains with a relative PDIA level of between two and four. Improved thaumatin production was confirmed in 5-1 fermenters using a strain of A. awamori with six pdiA gene copies, containing 3.2-fold higher levels of PDIA than wild-type strains. 
23518084	20130323	J_Mycol_Med	D016430 D003160 D016428 	Can chitotriosidase be a surrogate marker for invasive fungal disease?	Chitotriosidase (CHT) enzyme has been known to be secreted from the activated macrophages. We infer with these data that CHT activity is an indicator for the defence. In this study, we evaluated CHT levels in both neutropenic and non neutropenic patients. CHT enzyme activity was measured and compared to each other groups. Chitotriosidase levels were found to be significantly higher in neutropenic patients with candidemia. In the comparison between neutropenic and non neutropenic patients, there was a significant difference for CHT levels. The use of this enzyme as a surrogate marker for candidemias were evaluated in neutropenic and non neutropenic patients. 
18450486	20080503	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of the cis-acting elements involved in regulation of xylanase III gene expression in Trichoderma reesei PC-3-7.	The xylanase III gene (xyn3) from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei PC-3-7 is only induced by cellulose, its derivatives and L-sorbose, but not by xylan. In this study, we defined three cis-acting elements within the xyn3 upstream region by using detailed deletion and mutation analysis. In addition to the Xyr1/ACEII-binding motif (5'-GGCTAA-3'), the analogous motifs 5'-GGCTAT-3' and 5'-GGCAAA-3' presented as an inverted repeat spaced by 16-bp internal sequences were identified as essential elements for xyn3 expression. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay using heterologously expressed Xyr1 demonstrates that all the identified cis-acting elements are able to interact with Xyr1. Furthermore, no xyn3 transcripts were formed in the xyr1-knockout strain upon induction by sophorose and L-sorbose. These results indicate that xyn3 expression is transcriptionally regulated by Xyr1, and suggest that the 5'-GGCTAT-3' and 5'-GGCAAA-3' motifs play roles in Xyr1-mediated cellulase and xylanase gene expression in T. reesei. 
9933916	19990206	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of an endo-1,3-beta-D-glucanase produced during the interaction between the mycoparasite Stachybotrys elegans and its host Rhizoctonia solani.	The mycoparasite Stachybotrys elegans produces, in addition to a previously purified 94-kDa 1,3-beta-glucanase, at least three extracellular 1,3-beta-glucanases (75, 110, and 180 kDa) when grown on purified cell wall of Rhizoctonia solani. We purified to homogeneity an endo-1,3-beta-glucanase of 75 kDa which possesses a low K(m) value of 20 micrograms laminarin.mL-1 and is most active at pH 5.0 and 40 degrees C. Polyclonal antibodies raised against both the 75- and 94-kDa 1,3-beta-glucanases indicate that they are immunologically related but do not cross-react with the 110- and 180-kDa glucanases. Exposure of growing hyphal tips of R. solani to the pure 75-kDa 1,3-beta-glucanase caused them to swell and lyse. A transient increase of the 75-kDa 1,3-beta-glucanase with a concomitant decrease of the 94-kDa 1,3-beta-glucanase and the appearance of a 20-kDa protein were observed at the point of interaction between R. solani and Stachybotrys elegans on plates. Evidence suggesting a precursor-product relationship between the two 1,3-beta-glucanases is provided. Our results indicate that the 75-kDa 1,3-beta-glucanase may be involved in Stachybotrys elegans mycoparasitism. 
6765598	19810201	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and characterization of dominant mutations resistant to carbon catabolite repression of galactokinase synthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Seven dominant mutations showing greatly enhanced resistance to the glucose repression of galactokinase synthesis have been isolated from GAL81 mutants, which have the constitutive phenotype but are still strongly repressible by glucose for the synthesis of the Leloir enzymes. These glucose-resistant mutants were due to semidominant mutations at either of two loci, GAL82 and GAL83. Both loci are unlinked to the GAL81- gal4, gal80, or gal7 X gal10 X gal1 locus or to each other. The GAL83 locus was mapped on chromosome V at a site between arg9 and cho1. The GAL82 and GAL83 mutations produced partial resistance of galactokinase to glucose repression only when one or both of these mutations were combined with a GAL81 or a gal80 mutation. The GAL82 and GAL83 mutations are probably specific for expression of the Leloir pathway and related enzymes, because they do not affect the synthesis of alpha-D-glucosidase, invertase, or isocitrate lyase. 
8215880	19930101	Arch_Tierernahr	D016428 D016454 	Probiotics and manipulation of rumen development and function.	There is good evidence that the bacterial and fungal probiotics are effective in the manipulation of rumen development and function. The effects of adherent Streptococcus bovis preparations were manifested by significant increase of adherent S. bovis bacteria and alpha amylase activity in the rumen wall of young ruminants. Fungal probiotics based on Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Aspergillus oryzae are rapidly gaining acceptance as a means of improving productivity in adult ruminants. However, fungal probiotics may also have a complementary role to bacterial probiotics in young animals. Dietary yeast improved performance of calves and lambs in terms of feed intake and live weight gain and Aspergillus foetidus was effective in altering rumen fermentation in newly weaned lambs. 
9435109	19980122	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of an alpha-L-rhamnosidase from Aspergillus niger.	An enzyme with alpha-L-rhamnosidase activity was purified by anion exchange chromatography from an Aspergillus niger commercial preparation. The alpha-L-rhamnosidase was shown to be N-glycosylated, and had a molecular mass of 85 kD on sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of which approximately 12% was contributed by carbohydrate. The enzyme was optimally active at pH 4.5 and 65 degrees C. When tested towards p-nitrophenyl-alpha-L-rhamnopyranoside it showed Km and Vmax values of 2.9 mM and 20.6 U mg-1, respectively whereas it was inhibited competitively by L-rhamnose (Ki 3.5 mM). Substrate specificity studies showed alpha-L-rhamnosidase to be active both on alpha-1,2 and alpha-1,6 linkages to beta-D-glucose. Moreover, the enzyme was able to release L-rhamnose from geranyl-beta-D-rutinoside and 2-phenylethyl-beta-D-rutinoside. 
17669636	20070803	Colloids_Surf_B_Biointerfaces	D003160 D016428 	Comparative effects of different triazole compounds on growth, photosynthetic pigments and carbohydrate metabolism of Solenostemon rotundifolius.	The effects of two triazole compounds, triadimefon and hexaconazole, on the growth and carbohydrate metabolism were studied in Solenostemon rotundifolius Poir., Morton plants under pot culture. Plants were treated with triadimefon at 15mg l(-1) and hexaconazole at 10mg l(-1) separately by soil drenching on 80, 110 and 140 days after planting (DAP). The plants were harvested randomly and growth parameters were studied on 90, 120 and 150 DAP for determining the effect of both the triazole on growth and chlorophyll pigments. These triazole compounds increased the chlorophyll pigments. However, both the treatments decreased the fresh and dry weights of shoot and leaf area. Both these triazole resulted in a marginal increase in starch content and decreased the sugar contents. The carbohydrate metabolizing enzymes alpha- and beta-amylase activities were reduced and invertase activity increased in S. rotundifolius under triadimefon and hexaconazole treatments. 
22039217	20111101	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Mapping, complementation, and targets of the cysteine protease actinidin in kiwifruit.	Cysteine proteases (CPs) accumulate to high concentration in many fruit, where they are believed to play a role in fungal and insect defense. The fruit of Actinidia species (kiwifruit) exhibit a range of CP activities (e.g. the Actinidia chinensis variety YellowA shows less than 2% of the activity of Actinidia deliciosa variety Hayward). A major quantitative trait locus for CP activity was mapped to linkage group 16 in a segregating population of A. chinensis. This quantitative trait locus colocated with the gene encoding actinidin, the major acidic CP in ripe Hayward fruit encoded by the ACT1A-1 allele. Sequence analysis indicated that the ACT1A locus in the segregating A. chinensis population contained one functional allele (A-2) and three nonfunctional alleles (a-3, a-4, and a-5) each containing a unique frameshift mutation. YellowA kiwifruit contained two further alleles: a-6, which was nonfunctional because of a large insertion, and a-7, which produced an inactive enzyme. Site-directed mutagenesis of the act1a-7 protein revealed a residue that restored CP activity. Expression of the functional ACT1A-1 cDNA in transgenic plants complemented the natural YellowA mutations and partially restored CP activity in fruit. Two consequences of the increase in CP activity were enhanced degradation of gelatin-based jellies in vitro and an increase in the processing of a class IV chitinase in planta. These results provide new insight into key residues required for CP activity and the in vivo protein targets of actinidin. 
10939261	20000812	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Expression of pectate lyase from Colletotrichum gloesosporioides in C. magna promotes pathogenicity.	To test the contribution of pectate lyase (PL) to promoting fungal pathogenicity, a pectate lyase gene (pel) from the avocado pathogen Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, isolate Cg-14, was expressed in C. magna isolate L-2.5, a pathogen of cucurbits that causes minor symptoms in watermelon seedlings and avocado fruits. Isolate L-2.5 was transformed with pPCPH-1 containing hph-B as a selectable marker and the 4.1-kb genomic pel clone. Southern hybridization, with the 4.1-kb genomic pel clone or 2.13-kb hph-B cassette as probes, detected integration of pel in transformed C. magna isolates Cm-PL-3 and Cm-PL-10. Western blot (immunoblot) analysis with antibodies against Cg-14 PL detected a single PL secreted by L-2.5 at a molecular mass of 41.5 kDa, whereas the PL of C. gloeosporioides had a molecular mass of 39 kDa. When PL activity was measured 4 days after inoculation in pectolytic enzyme-inducing media (PEIM), transformed isolates Cm-PL-3 and Cm-PL-10 showed additive PL activity relative to both Cg-14 and L-2.5. Transformed isolates also showed additive maceration capabilities on avocado pericarp relative to the wild-type C. magna alone, but did not reach the maceration ability of C. gloeosporioides. However, more severe maceration and damping off developed in watermelon seedlings inoculated with the transformed isolates compared with the two wild-type isolates, which showed no symptom development on these seedlings during the same period. Results clearly show the contribution of a single pel to the pathogenic abilities of C. magna and suggest that PL is a pathogenicity factor required for the penetration and colonization of Colletotrichum species. 
24357319	20131221	Science	D016428 D013486 	Revealing nature's cellulase diversity: the digestion mechanism of Caldicellulosiruptor bescii CelA.	Most fungi and bacteria degrade plant cell walls by secreting free, complementary enzymes that hydrolyze cellulose; however, some bacteria use large enzymatic assemblies called cellulosomes, which recruit complementary enzymes to protein scaffolds. The thermophilic bacterium Caldicellulosiruptor bescii uses an intermediate strategy, secreting many free cellulases that contain multiple catalytic domains. One of these, CelA, comprises a glycoside hydrolase family 9 and a family 48 catalytic domain, as well as three type III cellulose-binding modules. In the saccharification of a common cellulose standard, Avicel, CelA outperforms mixtures of commercially relevant exo- and endoglucanases. From transmission electron microscopy studies of cellulose after incubation with CelA, we report morphological features that suggest that CelA not only exploits the common surface ablation mechanism driven by general cellulase processivity, but also excavates extensive cavities into the surface of the substrate. These results suggest that nature's repertoire of cellulose digestion paradigms remain only partially discovered and understood.  
9532788	19980409	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Overproduction of 1,2-alpha-mannosidase, a glycochain processing enzyme, by Aspergillus oryzae.	A recombinant strain of Aspergillus oryzae has been constructed in which 1,2-alpha-mannosidase, an intracellular glycochain processing enzyme with specificity toward 1,2-alpha-mannosidic linkages, has been overexpressed. For the construction, the N-terminal signal-encoding sequence of the 1,2-alpha-mannosidase gene (msdC) from Penicillium citrinum was replaced with that of the aspergillopepsin I signal, and the fused gene was inserted between amyB promoter-terminator elements in the expression plasmid pTAPM1. A transformant of A. oryzae (the strain PM-1) secreted a great deal of heterogeneous 1,2-alpha-mannosidase into the culture media, which was purified by CM ion-exchange chromatography. Approximately 21 mg of the purified enzyme was obtained per liter of culture. N-terminal amino acid analysis indicated that the signal peptide was removed from the secreted enzyme. The Penicillium 1,2-alpha-mannosidase expressed in A. oryzae did not show any notable difference from the enzyme from P. citrinum in such properties as M(r), specific activity, CD spectra, or kinetic parameters. Man7GlcNAc2 accumulated temporarily during the degradation of Man9GlcNAc2 to Man5GlcNAc2 by fungal 1,2-alpha-mannosidase. 
12747335	20030516	Mycol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Production of wood-decay enzymes, mass loss and lignin solubilization in wood by tropical Xylariaceae.	Tropical xylariaceous taxa in the genera Biscognauxia, Hypoxylon and Xylaria were evaluated for their ability to produce wood-decay enzymes and effect mass loss and lignin solubilization in angiosperm and gymnosperm wood. All xylariaceous taxa were capable of cellulose and xylan hydrolysis, but few produced enzymes involved in lignin breakdown. Xylariaceous fungi were incapable of causing mass loss in gymnosperm wood, but several caused significant mass loss in angiosperm wood during a six month in vitro exposure. Mass loss values obtained were low at approx. 20% of those obtained for basidiomycetes. Lignin was solubilized at similar rates to mass loss by Hypoxylon and Xylaria species, resulting in indices of lignin solubilization between 0.88 and 1.11, which were similar to those obtained for white-rot basidiomycetes and higher than those previously reported for any other xylariaceous fungi. 
22406948	20120313	Biochem._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of chitinase on resistance to fungal pathogens in sea buckthorn, Hippophae rhamnoides, and cloning of Class I and III chitinase genes.	Sea buckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides L.) is naturally distributed from Asia to Europe. It has been widely planted as an ornamental shrub and is rich in nutritional and medicinal compounds. Fungal pathogens that cause diseases such as dried-shrink disease are threats to the production of this plant. In this study, we isolated the dried-shrink disease pathogen from bark and total chitinase protein from leaves of infected plants. The results of the Oxford Cup experiment suggested that chitinase protein inhibited the growth of this pathogen. To improve pathogen resistance, we cloned chitinase Class I and III genes in H. rhamnoides, designated Hrchi1 and Hrchi3. The full-length cDNA of the open reading frame region of Hrchi1 contained 903 bp encoding 300 amino acids and Hrchi3 contained 894 bp encoding 297 amino acids. Active domain analysis, protein types, and secondary and 3D structures were predicted using online software. 
23152614	20121116	J._Neurosci.	D016428 D052061 	Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) transactivator of transcription through its intact core and cysteine-rich domains inhibits Wnt/β-catenin signaling in astrocytes: relevance to HIV neuropathogenesis.	Wnt/β-catenin is a neuroprotective pathway regulating cell fate commitment in the CNS and many vital functions of neurons and glia. Its dysregulation is linked to a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Wnt/β-catenin is also a repressor of HIV transcription in multiple cell types, including astrocytes, which are dysregulated in HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder. Given that HIV proteins can overcome host restriction factors and that perturbations of Wnt/β-catenin signaling can compromise astrocyte function, we evaluated the impact of HIV transactivator of transcription (Tat) on Wnt/β-catenin signaling in astrocytes. HIV clade B Tat, in primary progenitor-derived astrocytes and U87MG cells, inhibited Wnt/β-catenin signaling as demonstrated by its inhibition of active β-catenin, TOPflash reporter activity, and Axin-2 (a downstream target of Wnt/β-catenin signaling). Point mutations in either the core region (K41A) or the cysteine-rich region (C30G) of Tat abrogated its ability to inhibit β-catenin signaling. Clade C Tat, which lacks the dicysteine motif, did not alter β-catenin signaling, confirming that the dicysteine motif is critical for Tat inhibition of β-catenin signaling. Tat coprecipitated with TCF-4 (a transcription factor that partners with β-catenin), suggesting a physical interaction between these two proteins. Furthermore, knockdown of β-catenin or TCF-4 enhanced docking of Tat at the TAR region of the HIV long terminal repeat. These findings highlight a bidirectional interference between Tat and Wnt/β-catenin that negatively impacts their cognate target genes. The consequences of this interaction include alleviation of Wnt/β-catenin-mediated suppression of HIV and possible astrocyte dysregulation contributing to HIV neuropathogenesis. 
9749670	19980928	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Single mating type-specific genes and their 3' UTRs control mating and fertility in Cochliobolus heterostrophus.	To determine the number of proteins required for mating type (MAT) locus-regulated control of mating in Cochliobolus heterostrophus, MAT fragments of various sizes were expressed in MAT deletion strains. As little as 1.5 kb of MAT sequence, encoding a single unique protein in each mating type (MAT-1 and MAT-2), conferred mating ability, although an additional 160 bp of 3' UTR was needed for production of ascospores. No other mating type-specific genes involved in mating identity or fertility were found. Thus, although homologs of the C. heterostrophus MAT-1 and MAT-2 genes exist in the filamentous ascomycetes Neurospora crassa and Podospora anserina, C. heterostrophus does not appear to have mating type-specific homologs of two additional genes required by both N. crassa and P. anserina for successful sexual reproduction. Three genes were identified in the common DNA flanking the MAT locus: a gene encoding a GTPase-activating protein and an ORF of unknown function lie 5' while a beta-glucosidase encoding gene lies found 3'. None of these genes appears to be involving in the mating process. 
3403510	19880801	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Differential regulation of synthesis of multiple forms of specific endoglucanases by Trichoderma reesei QM9414.	A method consisting of sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and subsequent detection of endoglucanases by blotting with a polyclonal antibody against endoglucanase I was used to investigate the effect of induction and carbon catabolite derepression on the synthesis of multiple forms of endoglucanase I by Trichoderma reesei. Five forms appeared upon growth on cellulose, whereas four and only two appeared upon growth on lactose (carbon catabolite derepression) and induction by sophorose in a resting cell system, respectively. All endoglucanases detected resembled endoglucanase I in their specificity, since they exhibited no activity toward xylan or paranitrophenyl-beta-D-lactobioside. A small (25-kilodalton) endoglucanase only appeared during growth on cellulose. None of the multiple forms arose by postsecretional modification. The results indicate that sophorose may not be the only compound mediating cellulose induction of the specific endoglucanases in T. reesei. 
20444596	20100507	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Direct microbial conversion of wheat straw into lipid by a cellulolytic fungus of Aspergillus oryzae A-4 in solid-state fermentation.	Direct microbial conversion of wheat straw into lipid by a cellulolytic fungus of Aspergillus oryzae A-4 in solid-state fermentation (SSF) was investigated. In submerged fermentation, A. oryzae A-4 accumulated lipid to 15-18.15% of biomass when pure cellulose was utilized as the sole substrate. In SSF of the wheat straw and bran mixture, A. oryzae A-4 yielded lipid of 36.6mg/g dry substrate (gds), and a cellulase activity of 1.82 FPU/gds with 25.25% of holocellulose utilization in the substrates were detected on the 6th day. The lipid yield reached 62.87 mg/gds in SSF on the 6th day under the optimized conditions from Plackett-Burman design (PBD). Cellulase secretion of A. oryzae A-4 was found to influence the lipid yield. Dilute acid pretreatment of the straw and addition of some agro-industrial wastes to the straw could enhance lipid production of A. oryzae A-4. 
1321801	19920601	J._Anim._Sci.	D016428 	Effect of white rot basidiomycetes on chemical composition and in vitro digestibility of oat straw and alfalfa stems.	Five white rot basidiomycetes were evaluated for their potential to improve ruminal degradation of oat straw and alfalfa stems. Phanerochaete chrysosporium (PC), Scytinostroma galactinum (SG), Phlebia tremellosa (PT), Phellinus pini (PP), and Pholiota mutabilis (PM) were incubated on oat straw and alfalfa stems for 30 d at 28 degrees C and 90% relative humidity. Detergent fiber and total fiber components (neutral sugars, uronic acids, Klason lignin [KL], and ester- and ether-linked non-core lignin phenolics), core lignin nitrobenzene oxidation products, and IVDMD were determined. Electron microscopy of KMnO4-stained and cellulase/colloidal gold-labeled sections was used to monitor fungal activity. Large losses of DM were noted for all fungal species on both substrates. Lignin (KL and ADL) was removed (P less than .05) from oat straw by PC and PT treatment, but no net loss of lignin was observed for fungal treatment of alfalfa stems. Cell-wall polysaccharides were removed from both substrates by fungal activity. Only PC increased (P less than .05) IVDMD of oat straw, and SG, PT, PP, and PC treatment decreased (P less than .05) IVDMD of alfalfa stems, presumably because the fungi removed the most readily fermentable polysaccharides. Transmission electron microscopy using KMnO4 staining showed a nonselective white rot attack. Cytochemical studies using colloidal gold-labeled exo- and endocellulases were used to map the location of cellulose in the cell wall before and after decay by the white rot fungi. All the white rot fungi tested had eroded and thinned cell walls. Residual cell walls were well-labeled; both endo- and exocellulose-colloidal gold identified the cellulosic wall material that remained.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
21261873	20110126	Microb_Biotechnol	D016428 	Directed evolution of Aspergillus niger glucoamylase to increase thermostability.	Using directed evolution and site-directed mutagenesis, we have isolated a highly thermostable variant of Aspergillus niger glucoamylase (GA), designated CR2-1. CR2-1 includes the previously described mutations Asn20Cys and Ala27Cys (forming a new disulfide bond), Ser30Pro, Thr62Ala, Ser119Pro, Gly137Ala, Thr290Ala, His391Tyr and Ser436Pro. In addition, CR2-1 includes several new putative thermostable mutations, Val59Ala, Val88Ile, Ser211Pro, Asp293Ala, Thr390Ser, Tyr402Phe and Glu408Lys, identified by directed evolution. CR2-1 GA has a catalytic efficiency (k(cat)/K(m)) at 35°C and a specific activity at 50°C similar to that of wild-type GA. Irreversible inactivation tests indicated that CR2-1 increases the free energy of thermoinactivation at 80°C by 10 kJ mol(-1) compared with that of wild-type GA. Thus, CR2-1 is more thermostable (by 5 kJ mol(-1) at 80°C) than the most thermostable A. niger GA variant previously described, THS8. In addition, Val59Ala and Glu408Lys were shown to individually increase the thermostability in GA variants by 1 and 2 kJ mol(-1), respectively, at 80°C. 
11551075	20010912	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 	Local modulation of host pH by Colletotrichum species as a mechanism to increase virulence.	The phytopathogenic fungus Colletotrichum gloeosporioides produces one pectate lyase (PL) that is a key virulence factor in disease development. During growth of C. gloeosporioides, Colletotrichum acutatum, and Colletotrichum coccodes in acidified yeast extract medium, the fungus secreted ammonia and increased the medium pH. Ammonia accumulation and the consequent pH change increased as a function of initial pH and buffer capacity of the medium. PL secretion by C. gloeosporioides correspondingly increased as the pH of the medium increased. The C. gloeosporioides pelB gene-disrupted mutant was able to increase ammonia accumulation and pH of the media similarly to the wild-type isolate. C. gloeosporioides in avocado, C. coccodes in tomato, and C. acutatum in apple showed ammonia accumulation in the infected area where pH increased to 7.5 to 8 and PL activity is optima. In nonhost interactions where C. gloeosporioides was inoculated in apples, the addition of ammonia-releasing compounds significantly enhanced pathogenicity to levels similar to those caused by the compatible C. acutatum-apple interaction. The results therefore suggest the importance of ammonia secretion as a virulence factor, enhancing environmental pH and pathogenicity of the Colletotrichum species. 
11454002	20010717	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	A novel chitinase having a unique mode of action from Aspergillus fumigatus YJ-407.	Chitinases are produced throughout the growth process of fungi and are thought to play important roles in morphogenesis. Aspergillus fumigatus, is an important pathogen of immunocompromised individuals in which it causes pneumonia and invasive disseminated disease with high mortality; it is also known to produce chitinase. We have induced an exceptionally stable extracellular chitinase in A. fumigatus YJ-407, which could be isolated readily in a homogeneous form by using ammonium sulfate precipitation followed by DEAE-cellulose chromatography and preparative PAGE. The molecular mass of this chitinase was estimated to be 46 000 by SDS/PAGE, and its isoelectric point was pH 5.6. The enzyme was most active at pH 5.0 and 60 degrees C, and was inhibited strongly by Hg2+, Pb2+, Ag+, Fe2+, Mn2+ and Zn2+. The enzyme was stable over a broad pH range 4-8 and below 45 degrees C. Tryptophan and carboxyl groups were found to be essential for the enzyme activity. The Michaelis constants for swollen chitin and chitosan were 1.12 mg.mL-1 and 1.84 mg.mL-1, respectively. The enzyme showed maximum activity towards glycol chitin and partially deacetylated chitosan, and lower activity towards colloidal chitin. Analysis of the hydrolysis product showed that the enzyme has both endo- and exo-hydrolytic activities. In addition, a transglycosyl activity was also observed. 
11785974	20020112	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	A new antifungal protein and a chitinase with prominent macrophage-stimulating activity from seeds of Phaseolus vulgaris cv. pinto.	From the seeds of the pinto bean (Phaseolus vulgaris cv. pinto), a chitinase and a novel antifungal protein, both with the ability of markedly augmenting nitrite production by murine peritoneal macrophages, were isolated. The antifungal proteins, designated phasein A and phasein B, exhibited molecular weights of 28 and 32 kDa, respectively. Phaseins A and B were adsorbed on Affi-gel blue gel and CM-Sepharose and were eluted as adjacent peaks from CM-Sepharose. Phasein A demonstrated potent antifungal activity toward Fusarium oxysporum and Physalospora piricola. Phasein B was more potent than phasein A toward P. piricola but less potent than phasein A toward F. oxysporum and Rhizoctonia solani. Both antifungal proteins inhibited the activity of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase and translation in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate system, with phasein B being more potent. Nitrite production by mouse macrophages was greatly boosted in the presence of both phaseins A and B, although the effect of phasein A was more prominent. The bioactivities of phaseins were in general potent compared with those of other antifungal proteins. 
11097887	20001201	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Evidence for contribution of neutral trehalase in barotolerance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In yeast, trehalose accumulation and its hydrolysis, which is catalyzed by neutral trehalase, are believed to be important for thermotolerance. We have shown that trehalose is one of the important factors for barotolerance (resistance to hydrostatic pressure); however, nothing is known about the role of neutral trehalase in barotolerance. To estimate the contribution of neutral trehalase in resisting high hydrostatic pressure, we measured the barotolerance of neutral trehalase I and/or neutral trehalase II deletion strains. Under 180 MPa of pressure for 2 h, the neutral trehalase I deletion strain showed higher barotolerance in logarithmic-phase cells and lower barotolerance in stationary-phase cells than the wild-type strain. Introduction of the neutral trehalase I gene (NTH1) into the deletion mutant restored barotolerance defects in stationary-phase cells. Furthermore, we assessed the contribution of neutral trehalase during pressure and recovery conditions by varying the expression of NTH1 or neutral trehalase activity with a galactose-inducible GAL1 promoter with either glucose or galactose. The low barotolerance observed with glucose repression of neutral trehalase from the GAL1 promoter was restored during recovery with galactose induction. Our results suggest that neutral trehalase contributes to barotolerance, especially during recovery. 
17040918	20061017	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	The Arabidopsis protein kinase PTI1-2 is activated by convergent phosphatidic acid and oxidative stress signaling pathways downstream of PDK1 and OXI1.	Arabidopsis PDK1 activity is regulated by binding to the lipid phosphatidic acid (PA) resulting in activation of the oxidative stress-response protein kinase OXI1/AGC2-1. Thus there is an inferred link between lipid signaling and oxidative stress signaling modules. Among a panel of hormones and stresses tested, we found that, in addition to PA, the fungal elicitor xylanase activated PDK1, suggesting that PDK1 has a role in plant pathogen defense mechanisms. The downstream OXI1 was activated by additional stress factors, including PA, H(2)O(2), and partially by xylanase. We have isolated an interacting partner of OXI1, a Ser/Thr kinase (PTI1-2), which is downstream of OXI1. Its sequence closely resembles the tomato Pti kinase, which has been implicated in the hypersensitive response, a localized programmed cell death that occurs at the site of pathogen infection. PTI1-2 is activated by the same stresses/elicitors as OXI1 and additionally flagellin. We have used RNA interference to knock out the expression of PDK1 and OXI1 and to study the effects on PTI1-2 activity. We show that specific lipid signaling pathways converge on PTI1-2 via the PDK1-OXI1 axis, whereas H(2)O(2) and flagellin signals to OXI1-PTI1-2 via a PDK1-independent pathway. PTI1-2 represents a new downstream component that integrates diverse lipid and reactive oxygen stress signals and functions closely with OXI1. 
1588915	19920411	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D003160 D016428 	The structure and regulation of homeologous tobacco endochitinase genes of Nicotiana sylvestris and N. tomentosiformis origin.	The fungicidal class I chitinases are believed to be important in the induced defense response of plants. We isolated and partially characterized genomic clones representing two members, CHN14 and CHN50, of the gene subfamily encoding these enzymes in Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Havana 425. The coding sequences of genes CHN14, CHN50, and CHN48, which was cloned earlier, are identical at 79-95% of the positions. Tobacco is an amphidiploid species derived from ancestors most closely related to the present-day species N. sylvestris and N. tomentosiformis. Southern analysis of genomic DNA, comparison of deduced amino acid sequences, and partial sequencing of the purified enzymes suggest that the gene pairs CHN48/CHN50 and CHN14/CHN14' are homeologues. Gene CHN48, which encodes chitinase A (Mr ca. 34 kDa), and gene CHN14 are derived from N. tomentosiformis; whereas gene CHN50, which encodes chitinase B (Mr ca. 32 kDa), and gene CHN14' are derived from N. sylvestris. Class I chitinases are induced in leaves of plants treated with ethylene or infected with the fungal pathogen Cercospora nicotianae and in cultured cells transferred to medium without added auxin and cytokinin. RNase protection assays show that under these conditions transcripts encoded by the homeologues CHN48 and CHN50 account for greater than 90% of the total chitinase mRNA. The less abundant transcript, CHN48, consistently showed a greater degree of induction than CHN50. Expression of the homeologues CHN14 and CHN14' represented less than 10% of the total chitinase mRNA. They showed a pattern of hormonal regulation similar to CHN48 and CHN50, but transcripts of these genes were not detected in leaves infected with C. nicotianae. Therefore the two sets of homeologues are regulated in the same way by hormones and respond differently to infection by a pathogen. 
23835302	20130710	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Synergetic effect of yeast cell-surface expression of cellulase and expansin-like protein on direct ethanol production from cellulose.	Numerous studies have examined the direct fermentation of cellulosic materials by cellulase-expressing yeast; however, ethanol productivity in these systems has not yet reached an industrial level. Certain microorganisms, such as the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma reesei, produce expansin-like proteins, which have a cellulose-loosening effect that may increase the breakdown of cellulose. Here, to improve the direct conversion of cellulose to ethanol, yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae co-displaying cellulase and expansin-like protein on the cell surface were constructed and examined for direct ethanol fermentation performance. The cellulase and expansin-like protein co-expressing strain showed 246 mU/g-wet cell of phosphoric acid swollen cellulose (PASC) degradation activity, which corresponded to 2.9-fold higher activity than that of a cellulase-expressing strain. This result clearly demonstrated that yeast cell-surface expressed cellulase and expansin-like protein act synergistically to breakdown cellulose. In fermentation experiments examining direct ethanol production from PASC, the cellulase and expansin-like protein co-expressing strain produced 3.4 g/L ethanol after 96 h of fermentation, a concentration that was 1.4-fold higher than that achieved by the cellulase-expressing strain (2.5 g/L). The PASC degradation and fermentation ability of an engineered yeast strain was markedly improved by co-expressing cellulase and expansin-like protein on the cell surface. To our knowledge, this is the first report to demonstrate the synergetic effect of co-expressing cellulase and expansin-like protein on a yeast cell surface, which may be a promising strategy for constructing direct ethanol fermenting yeast from cellulose. 
9783424	19981023	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Purification, characterization, and antifungal activity of chitinase from Fusarium chlamydosporum, a mycoparasite to groundnut rust, Puccinia arachidis.	Chitinase (EC 3.2.1.14) was isolated from the culture filtrate of Fusarium chlamydosporum and purified by ion-exchange chromatography and gel filtration. The molecular mass of purified chitinase was 40 kDa as estimated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Chitinase was optimally active at a pH of 5 and stable from pH 4 to 6 and up to 40 degrees C. Among the metals and inhibitors tested, mercuric chloride completely inhibited the enzyme activity. The activity of chitinase was high on colloidal and pure chitin. The purified chitinase inhibited the germination of uredospores of Puccinia arachidis and also lysed the walls of uredospores and germ tubes. The results from these experiments indicated that chitinase of F. chlamydosporum plays an important role in the biocontrol of groundnut rust. 
8082210	19940601	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Transformation of Trichoderma reesei based on hygromycin B resistance using homologous expression signals.	Trichoderma reesei was transformed to hygromycin B resistance using a novel vector, which contains the E. coli hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene (hph) fused between promoter and terminator elements of the homologous Trichoderma pki1 (coding for pyruvate kinase) and cbh2 (coding for cellobiohydrolase II) genes, respectively. Transformation frequencies of over 1,800--2,500 transformants/micrograms DNA were obtained, which is a 15--20-fold increase over that with pAN7-1, which contains hph between A. nidulans expression signals. Mitotically-stable transformants contained the hph gene and the regulatory sequences of the pki1 promoter and the cbh2 terminator integrated into the genome. Evidence for preferentially ectopic integration is given. 
9838130	19981205	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Analysis of the ntp1+ gene, encoding neutral trehalase in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	We have cloned and sequenced the ntp1+ gene that codes for neutral trehalase in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The ntp1+ gene product (Ntp1p) showed a 45-55% identity with neutral trehalases from other yeasts at the amino acid sequence level. However, in clear contrast to other neutral yeast trehalases so far characterized (which show two cAMP phospho-sites), only one consensus site for cAMP-dependent protein phosphorylation was found in Ntp1p. Northern blot hybridization experiments demonstrated that the Wis-Phh1/Sty1 MAP kinase cascade regulates ntp1+ expression during osmostress. 
11170563	20010215	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Production, purification, and properties of an endoglucanase produced by the hyphomycete Chalara (Syn. Thielaviopsis) paradoxa CH32.	The hyphomycete Chalara (syn. Thielaviopsis) paradoxa produces endoglucanase activity during the late trophophase. The low molecular mass (35 kDa) endoglucanase purified from cultured broths works optimally at 37 degrees C and pH 5.0. The enzyme inactivates at pH below 3.0 and also at temperatures of 50 degrees C or higher, but it is stable at lower temperatures, including refrigeration temperature and freezing. The enzyme is inhibited by detergents, by EDTA, and by the divalent cations Hg(2+) and Ag(2+). It is also inhibited to some extent by 10 mM Zn(2+), Fe(2+), and Mg(2+), but it is stimulated by Mn(2+). Enzyme activity is not affected by reducing agents. In the presence of low concentrations of water miscible organic solvents (20%) endoglucanase activity is inhibited by 7% (for methanol) to 50% (for acetonitrile), and it is totally inhibited at higher solvent concentrations (50%). Enzyme activity is not affected by the water immiscible solvent ethyl acetate. Carboxymethylcellulose is the preferred substrate (K(m(app)) = 8.3 g/L; V(max(app)) = 1.1 microM/min). Hydrolysis of crystalline cellulosic substrates is very limited, but it is greatly enhanced by phosphoric acid swelling. The purified enzyme shows no activity toward disaccharides or aryl-glucosides. Its activity is inhibited by cellobiose. 
17215040	20070112	Plasmid	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Development of plasmid vector and electroporation condition for gene transfer in sporogenic lactic acid bacterium, Bacillus coagulans.	Bacillus coagulans is a sporogenic lactic acid bacterium that ferments glucose and xylose, major components of plant biomass, a potential feedstock for cellulosic ethanol. The temperature and pH for optimum rate of growth of B. coagulans (50 to 55 degrees C, pH 5.0) are very similar to that of commercially developed fungal cellulases (50 degrees C; pH 4.8). Due to this match, simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) of cellulose to products by B. coagulans is expected to require less cellulase than needed if the SSF is conducted at a sub-optimal temperature, such as 30 degrees C, the optimum for yeast, the main biocatalyst used by the ethanol industry. To fully exploit B. coagulans as a platform organism, we have developed an electroporation method to transfer plasmid DNA into this genetically recalcitrant bacterium. We also constructed a B. coagulans/E. coli shuttle vector, plasmid pMSR10 that contains the rep region from a native plasmid (pMSR0) present in B. coagulans strain P4-102B. The native plasmid, pMSR0 (6823bp), has 9 ORFs, and replicates by rolling-circle mode of replication. Plasmid pNW33N, developed for Geobacillus stearothermophilus, was also transformed into this host and stably maintained while several other Bacillus/Escherichia coli shuttle vector plasmids were not transformed into B. coagulans. The transformation efficiency of B. coagulans strain P4-102B using the plasmids pNW33N or pMSR10 was about 1.5x10(16) per mole of DNA. The availability of shuttle vectors and an electroporation method is expected to aid in genetic and metabolic engineering of B. coagulans. 
9084153	19970315	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Temperature-related expression of the vacuolar aspartic proteinase (APR1) gene and beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase (HEX1) gene during Candida albicans morphogenesis.	Expression of the Candida albicans vacuolar aspartic proteinase (APR1) and beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase (HEX1) genes was studied when carbon-starved cells of strains ATCC 10261 and A72 were induced to grow as yeast or as germ tube-forming cells. Amounts of APR1 mRNA were similar under yeast or germ tube growth conditions. However, more APR1 mRNA was present in cells grown at 28 degrees C than in cells grown at 37 degrees C. The Apr1 enzyme activity of cell-free extracts was not affected by cellular morphology, culture pH or growth temperature. Amounts of HEX1 mRNA were also higher in N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc)-induced cells grown at 28 degrees C than in cells grown at 37 degrees C. There was slightly more HEX1 mRNA in cells grown at pH 4.5 than in cells grown at pH 6.7. The beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase activities of GlcNAc-grown cells correlated with the amounts of HEX1 mRNA and were higher when cells were grown at a lower temperature and at a lower pH. Although a similar temperature- and pH-dependent pattern of HEX1 mRNA expression was seen in cells grown on glucose, the enzyme activities in cell-free extracts were all very low. These data indicate that the APR1 and HEX1 genes play no direct role in the dimorphic transition of C. albicans and that transcription of both genes appears to be temperature regulated when the cells are released from carbon starvation. The expression of HEX1 mRNA is in part under the control of culture pH and translation of HEX1 mRNA seems to be regulated by glucose. 
2757372	19890501	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013486 	Fermentation products and plant cell wall-degrading enzymes produced by monocentric and polycentric anaerobic ruminal fungi.	Five anaerobic fungal isolates from the bovine rumen were grown on Coastal Bermuda grass (CBG) leaf blades and monitored over a 9-day period for substrate utilization, fermentation products, cellulase, and xylanase activities. Two of the fungal isolates showed monocentric growth patterns; one (isolate MC-1) had monoflagellated zoospores and morphologically resembled members of the genus Piromyces; the other (isolate MC-2) had multiflagellated zoospores and resembled members of the genus Neocallimastix. Three other isolates (PC-1, PC-2, and PC-3) exhibited polycentric growth and have not yet been described in the literature; these isolates were characterized by differences in morphology. All of the isolates degraded CBG to approximately the same extent (70% [dry weight]) in 9 days. Fermentation product accumulation was concurrent with substrate utilization. The major fermentation products for all isolates were formate, acetate, D-(-)-lactate, L-(+)-lactate, ethanol, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen. Succinate was produced by all cultures, with the exception of MC-1. Fermentation balances revealed different profiles for each isolate. As a group, monocentric isolates produced a greater ratio of oxidized to reduced products when grown on glucose or CBG than did the polycentric isolates, which produced a nearly equal ratio of these products. All isolates exhibited cellulolytic and xylanolytic activities, including endoglucanase, exoglucanase, beta-glucosidase, xylanase, and beta-xylosidase activities. Increasing enzyme activity correlated with the accumulation of fermentation products and substrate utilization. The optimum pH for the enzymatic activity of polycentric isolates was within a more narrow range (pH 6.4 to 7.0) than that of the monocentric isolates (pH 5.5 to 7.5). Activity toward cellulosic substrates was not detected until after the disappearance of reducing sugars. Xylanase activity was found to be five to seven times that of carboxymethyl cellulase activity for all cultures grown on CBG. 
23460952	20130306	Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Modular structure of HEL protein from Arabidopsis reveals new potential functions for PR-4 proteins.	Plants possess an innate immune system enabling them to defend themselves against pathogen attack.The accumulation of newly synthesized pathogenesis related proteins (PRs) is one of the most studied inducible plant defence response. In this paper, we report on the characterization of a class I PR4 vacuolar protein from Arabidopsis, named At HEL. The protein has a modular structure consisting of an N-terminal hevein-like domain(CB-HEL) and a C-terminal domain (CD-HEL) that are posttranslationally processed. Both domains show a strong antifungal activity, but they do not have chitinolitic properties.CD-HEL was found to be endowed with RNase, but not DNase activity. Molecular modeling carried out on both domains revealed that CB-HEL possesses a chitin binding site strictly conserved between hevein-type peptides and that the cavity involved in substrate interaction of CD-HEL do not show any residue substitution with respect to the orthologous wheatwin1 from wheat. Using a fishing for partners approach, CB-HEL was found to interact with a fungal fruiting body lectin. According to literature, we can hypothesize that CB-HEL could cross the pathogen hyphal membrane and that its interaction with a fungal lectin could knock out one of the weapons that the fungus uses. 
12213928	20020906	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a cell-wall acid phosphatase (PhoAp) in Aspergillus fumigatus.	In the filamentous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus, the vast majority of the cell-wall-associated proteins are secreted proteins that are in transit in the cell wall. These proteins can be solubilized by detergents and reducing agents. Incubation of a SDS/beta-mercaptoethanol-treated cell-wall extract with various recombinant enzymes that hydrolyse cell-wall polysaccharides resulted in the release of a unique protein in minute amounts only after incubation of the cell wall in the presence of 1,3-beta-glucanase. Sequence analysis and biochemical studies showed that this glycoprotein, with an apparent molecular mass of 80 kDa, was an acid phosphatase (PhoAp) that was active on both phosphate monoesters and phosphate diesters. PhoAp is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein that was recovered in the culture filtrate and cell-wall fraction of A. fumigatus after cleavage of its anchor. It is also a phosphate-repressible acid phosphatase. The absence of PhoAp from a phosphate-rich medium was not associated with a reduction in fungal growth, indicating that this cell-wall-associated protein does not play a role in the morphogenesis of A. fumigatus. 
23666150	20130514	Mol._Biol._Rep.	D016428 D013485 	Recombinant β-1,3-1,4-glucanase from Theobroma cacao impairs Moniliophthora perniciosa mycelial growth.	In this work, we identified a gene from Theobroma cacao L. genome and cDNA libraries, named TcGlu2, that encodes a β-1,3-1,4-glucanase. The TcGlu2 ORF was 720 bp in length and encoded a polypeptide of 239 amino acids with a molecular mass of 25.58 kDa. TcGlu2 contains a conserved domain characteristic of β-1,3-1,4-glucanases and presented high protein identity with β-1,3-1,4-glucanases from other plant species. Molecular modeling of TcGlu2 showed an active site of 13 amino acids typical of glucanase with β-1,3 and 1,4 action mode. The recombinant cDNA TcGlu2 obtained by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli and whose sequence was confirmed by mass spectrometry, has a molecular mass of about 22 kDa (with His-Tag) and showed antifungal activity against the fungus Moniliophthora perniciosa, causal agent of the witches' broom disease in cacao. The integrity of the hyphae membranes of M. perniciosa, incubated with protein TcGlu2, was analyzed with propidium iodide. After 1 h of incubation, a strong fluorescence emitted by the hyphae indicating the hydrolysis of the membrane by TcGlu2, was observed. To our knowledge, this is the first study of a cacao β-1,3-1,4-glucanase expression in heterologous system and the first analysis showing the antifungal activity of a β-1,3-1,4-glucanase, in particular against M. perniciosa.  
15851102	20050427	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Enhanced secretion of heterologous proteins in Kluyveromyces lactis by overexpression of the GDP-mannose pyrophosphorylase, KlPsa1p.	GDP-mannose is the mannosyl donor for the glycosylation reactions and is synthesized by GDP-mannose pyrophosphorylase from GTP and d-mannose-1-phosphate; in Saccharomyces cerevisiae this enzyme is encoded by the PSA1/VIG9/SRB1 gene. We isolated the Kluyveromyces lactis KlPSA1 gene by complementing the osmotic growth defects of S. cerevisiae srb1/psa1 mutants. KlPsa1p displayed a high degree of similarity with other GDP-mannose pyrophosphorylases and was demonstrated to be the functional homologue of S. cerevisiae Psa1p. Phenotypic analysis of a K. lactis strain overexpressing the KlPSA1 gene revealed changes in the cell wall assembly. Increasing the KlPSA1 copy number restored the defects in O-glycosylation, but not those in N-glycosylation, that occur in K. lactis cells depleted for the hexokinase Rag5p. Overexpression of GDP-mannose pyrophosphorylase also enhanced heterologous protein secretion in K. lactis as assayed by using the recombinant human serum albumin and the glucoamylase from Arxula adeninivorans. 
10906953	20000725	EXS	D016428 D016454 	Molecular and biochemical aspects of chitin synthesis inhibition.	Chitin, is a beta-1,4-linked aminopolysacharide homopolymer of GlcNAc that occurs as a glycoprotein in the exoskeleton of arthropods, the cell wall of fungi and in various components of diverse invertebrates. It is synthesized in two different ways: in fungi the chitin synthase enzyme occurs as an inactive zymogen in vesicles called chitosomes and requires proteolytic activation; in arthropods this enzyme is membrane-bound and catalyzes the addition of GlcNAc units to a dolichol carrier. Chitin is degraded by three different chitinases, the endochitinase that degrades chitin into oligosaccharides of differing chain lengths, the exochitinase that degrades oligosaccharides into diacetylchitobiose and chitobiase, which degrades diacetylchitobiose into GlcNAc monomers. Inhibition of chitin synthesis as well as degradation can both result in deleterious effects that are often similar. Chitin synthesis can be blocked during the various steps by a variety of antibiotics, metabolic inhibitors, insect growth regulators, alkaloids and hormone analogs. During the molting process in arthropods, genes are sequentially expressed and repressed by developmental hormones. When these hormones or their analogs are administered temporally out of sequence, it can result in the blocking of cuticle formation, including chitin synthesis. With the advent of biotechnology and the availability of both complementary DNA and antibody probes, it is possible to develop high throughput assays for discovering new chemicals that can block chitin formation. Chitin synthesis inhibitors as well as inhibitors of chitin degradation that produce similar effects are promising agents for controlling insect pests, fungal pathogens and helminthic parasites. 
20165908	20100219	Protein_J.	D016428 	Characterization of water-soluble complexes of polyacrylic acid with alpha-Amylase from Aspergillus oryzae.	Polycomplex formation of alpha-Amylase from Aspergillus oryzae (TAKA) with polyacrylic acid (PAA) was studied by pH titration, fluorescence, and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods in water solutions. According to the our results, the complex formation and its solubility were depended on nature of enzyme and the pH of solutions. Both of them correlates isoelectric points (PI). The stability of PAA-amylase complexes was negligibly weak at pH 7 [pH > pI (isoelectric pH)]. Stable water-soluble polycomplexes were formed at pH 5 (pI approximately 4.5) and coexisted with free protein molecules. Insoluble complexes has been observed at pH < 4.5. The frozen storage stabilities of the obtained complexes were also studied by measuring the activities at different pH. 
8935660	19960315	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characteristics of cytosolic chitinase from Piromyces communis OTS1.	A chitinase was purified from the cytosolic fraction of the anaerobic rumen fungus Piromyces communis OTS1 by affinity chromatography using regenerated chitin, gel filtration and chromatofocusing. The chitinase was most active at pH 6.2 and at 60 degrees C in a 20-min assay. The molecular mass of the purified protein was estimated by SDS-PAGE to be 42 kDa and its pI was 4.9. The enzyme activity, which was of the 'endo' type, was inhibited by Ag+, Hg2+ and allosamidin. N-Acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and 'exo' type chitinase activity were absent from the purified preparation. 
17996466	20071113	Anaerobe	D016428 D013485 	Effects of emulsified octadecanic acids on gas production and cellulolysis by the rumen anaerobic fungus, Piromyces communis M014.	Responses of the rumen anaerobic fungus, Piromyces communis M014, to octadecanic long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs) were evaluated by measuring total and hydrogen gas productions, filter paper (FP) cellulose degradation and polysaccharidase enzyme activities. Octadecanic acids (stearic acid, C(18:0); oleic acid, C(18:1); linoleic acid, C(18:2) and linolenic acid, C(18:3)) were emulsified by ultrasonication under anaerobic conditions, and added to the medium at the level of 0.001%. When P. communis M014 was grown in culture with stearic and oleic acids, the cumulative gas production, FP cellulose digestion and enzyme activities were significantly (p<0.05) increased in the early incubation times relative to those for the control. However, the addition of linolenic acid inhibited all of the investigated parameters, including cellulose degradation, enzyme activities and gas production, up to 168h incubation. These results indicated that stearic and oleic acids tended to have stimulatory effects on fungal cellulolysis, whereas linolenic acid caused a significant (p<0.05) inhibitory effect on cellulolysis by the rumen fungus. The fungus, P. communis M014, can biohydrogenate C(18) unsaturated fatty acids to escape from their toxic effects. Therefore, in this study, the results indicated that the more highly the added C(18) LCFA to the fungal culture was unsaturated, the higher the inhibition of gas production and cellulase enzyme activity was. 
16361785	20051220	Zhi_Wu_Sheng_Li_Yu_Fen_Zi_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Xue_Bao	D016428 	[Heterologous expression and functional identification of a chitinase gene from wheat].	Chitinases are functional in plant defense against pathogens and also involved in plant development as well as human disease responses. In this study a chitinase gene, Wch2, from wheat was expressed transiently in tobacco leaves and stably in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants to evaluate its heterologous expression and potential application. Western blot analysis revealed that the expressed wheat chitinase was about 30 kD as was expected (Fig.1) and had hydrolytic activity towards chitin polymers (Fig.2). Integration and expression of Wch2 gene in transgenic Arabidopsis were confirmed by PCR (Fig.3) and Western blot (Fig.4) analyses. Wch2 accumulated to a high level in transgenic plants without any detectable degradation. Transgenic plants expressing Wch2 displayed a much higher resistance to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. matthiolae, a fungus infectious to Arabidopsis thaliana than the plants containing green fluorescence protein (GFP) (Fig.5). These results indicated that Wch2 was suitable for heterologous expression in different organisms and could be used for enhancement of plant resistance in genetic engineering. The Arabidopsis-Fusarium interaction may be one of the ideal plant-fungus interaction systems for the evaluation of antifungal proteins in planta. 
2450787	19880328	FEBS_Lett.	D003160 D016428 	Regional distant sequence homology between amylases, alpha-glucosidases and transglucanosylases.	Amylases possess short, conserved regions near functional side chains. Sequence comparison extends this relationship to comprise a maltase and a cyclodextrin glucanotransferase. Similarity also exists with intestinal sucrase-isomaltase and fungal glucoamylase near identified essential carboxyl groups. Homology between COOH-terminal regions of glucoamylase and cyclodextrin glucanotranserase may indicate raw-starch binding areas. It is suggested that amylases, alpha-glucosidases, and transglucanosylases acting on 1,4- and 1,6-alpha-glucosidic linkages share key structural features in the active centres. 
17259631	20070130	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Concerted responses between the chitin-binding protein secreting Streptomyces olivaceoviridis and Aspergillus proliferans.	Streptomycetes belong to the ecologically important bacterial population within soil, which is also inhabited by many fungi. The highly chitinolytic Streptomyces olivaceoviridis and the ascomycete Aspergillus proliferans were chosen as models to test for interactions among bacteria and fungi. In medium lacking a soluble carbon source, individually cultivated spores of the bacterium S. olivaceoviridis and the fungus A. proliferans do not germinate. However, as shown by viability tests, cultivation of a mixture of both spore types provokes successive events: (i) stimulation of the germination of S. olivaceoviridis spores, (ii) initiation of the outgrowth of some fungal spores to which the S. olivaceoviridis chitinase ChiO1 adheres, (iii) massive extension of viable networks of S. olivaceoviridis hyphae at the expense of fungal hyphae and (iv) balanced proliferation of closely interacting fungal and S. olivaceoviridis hyphae. The replacement of the S. olivaceoviridis wild-type strain by a chromosomal disruption mutant (DeltaC), lacking production of the extracellular chitin-binding protein CHB1 but still secreting the chitinase ChiO1, provokes (v) germination of each spore type, (vi) retarded development of both partners, followed by (vii) preferential proliferation of the fungus. Together with biochemical and immunomicroscopy studies, the data support the conclusion that CHB1 molecules aggregate to an extracellular matrix, maintaining a close contact, followed by several concerted responses of the bacterium and the fungus. 
17720633	20070828	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	The interplay of processivity, substrate inhibition and a secondary substrate binding site of an insect exo-beta-1,3-glucanase.	Abracris flavolineata midgut contains a processive exo-beta-glucanase (ALAM) with lytic activity against Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which was purified (yield, 18%; enrichment, 37 fold; specific activity, 1.89 U/mg). ALAM hydrolyses fungal cells or callose from the diet. ALAM (45 kDa; pI 5.5; pH optimum 6) major products with 0.6 mM laminarin as substrate are beta-glucose (61%) and laminaribiose (39%). Kinetic data obtained with laminaridextrins and methylumbelliferyl glucoside suggest that ALAM has an active site with at least six subsites. The best fitting of kinetic data to theoretical curves is obtained using a model where one laminarin molecule binds first to a high-affinity accessory site, causing active site exposure, followed by the transference of the substrate to the active site. The two-binding-site model is supported by results from chemical modifications of amino acid residues and by ALAM action in MUbetaGlu plus laminarin. Low laminarin concentrations increase the modification of His, Tyr and Asp or Glu residues and MUbetaGlu hydrolysis, whereas high concentrations abolish modification and inhibit MUbetaGlu hydrolysis. Our data indicate that processivity results from consecutive transferences of substrate between accessory and active site and that substrate inhibition arises when both sites are occupied by substrate molecules abolishing processivity. 
1280921	19921001	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Activity staining of endoglucanases in polyacrylamide gels.	The endoglucanases of Penicillium funiculosum were analyzed for the presence of multiple forms using a modified version of the Congo red method. Postelectrophoretic slab gels were directly incubated in a solution of carboxymethylcellulose for a period as short as 15 min and then the activities were visualized by staining with Congo red. Ten distinct bands of clearances were obtained indicating the presence of at least as many multiple forms. 
18592411	20080702	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Talaromyces thermophilus beta-D-xylosidase: purification, characterization and xylobiose synthesis.	When grown on wheat bran as the only carbon source, the filamentous fungus Talaromyces thermophilus produces large amounts of beta-xylosidase activity. The presence of glucose drastically decreases the beta-xylosidase production level. The beta-xylosidase of T. thermophilus was purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation, DEAE-cellulose chromatography, and gel filtration (high-performance liquid chromatography). The molecular mass of the enzyme was estimated to be 97 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and gel filtration. The enzyme activity was optimum at 50 degrees C and pH 7. The apparent Michaelis constant K(m) of the beta-xylosidase was 2.37 mM for p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside, with a V(max) of 0.049 micromol min(-1) per milligram protein. Enzyme activity was inhibited by Cu(2+), Hg(2+), and Zn(2+) and activated by Ca(2+), Mn(2+), and Co(+) at a concentration of 5 mM. At high xylose concentration, this enzyme catalyses the condensation reaction leading to xylobiose production. 
23800192	20130627	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Functional characterisation of the non-essential protein kinases and phosphatases regulating Aspergillus nidulans hydrolytic enzyme production.	Despite recent advances in the understanding of lignocellulolytic enzyme regulation, less is known about how different carbon sources are sensed and the signaling cascades that result in the adaptation of cellular metabolism and hydrolase secretion. Therefore, the role played by non-essential protein kinases (NPK) and phosphatases (NPP) in the sensing of carbon and/or energetic status was investigated in the model filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. Eleven NPKs and seven NPPs were identified as being involved in cellulase, and in some cases also hemicellulase, production in A. nidulans. The regulation of CreA-mediated carbon catabolite repression (CCR) in the parental strain was determined by fluorescence microscopy, utilising a CreA::GFP fusion protein. The sensing of phosphorylated glucose, via the RAS signalling pathway induced CreA repression, while carbon starvation resulted in derepression. Growth on cellulose represented carbon starvation and derepressing conditions. The involvement of the identified NPKs in the regulation of cellulose-induced responses and CreA derepression was assessed by genome-wide transcriptomics (GEO accession 47810). CreA::GFP localisation and the restoration of endocellulase activity via the introduction of the ∆creA mutation, was assessed in the NPK-deficient backgrounds. The absence of either the schA or snfA kinase dramatically reduced cellulose-induced transcriptional responses, including the expression of hydrolytic enzymes and transporters. The mechanism by which these two NPKs controlled gene transcription was identified, as the NPK-deficient mutants were not able to unlock CreA-mediated carbon catabolite repression under derepressing conditions, such as carbon starvation or growth on cellulose. Collectively, this study identified multiple kinases and phosphatases involved in the sensing of carbon and/or energetic status, while demonstrating the overlapping, synergistic roles of schA and snfA in the regulation of CreA derepression and hydrolytic enzyme production in A. nidulans. The importance of a carbon starvation-induced signal for CreA derepression, permitting transcriptional activator binding, appeared paramount for hydrolase secretion. 
16349991	19740601	Appl_Microbiol	D016428 	Cellulase Production by Trichoderma viride on Feedlot Waste.	Feedlot waste contains essentially all the necessary nutrients for batch fermentation with the fungus Trichoderma viride. The organism utilizes two-thirds of the carbohydrate in feedlot waste while elaborating cellulase in quantities comparable to commercial preparations. Essentially odor-free, the fermented waste contains all of the original nitrogen but has 24% less organic matter. 
23442693	20130228	Food_Chem	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Quantification of hesperidin in citrus-based foods using a fungal diglycosidase.	A simple enzymatic-spectrophotometric method for hesperidin quantification was developed by means of a specific fungal enzyme. The method utilises the diglycosidase α-rhamnosyl-β-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.168) to quantitatively hydrolyse hesperidin to hesperetin, and the last is measured by its intrinsic absorbance in the UV range at 323 nm. The application of this method to quantify hesperidin in orange (Citrus sinensis) juices was shown to be reliable in comparison with the standard method for flavonoid quantification (high performance liquid chromatography, HPLC). The enzymatic method was found to have a limit of quantification of 1.8 μM (1.1 mg/L) hesperidin, similar to the limit usually achieved by HPLC. Moreover, it was feasible to be applied to raw juice, without sample extraction. This feature eliminated the sample pre-treatment, which is mandatory for HPLC, with the consequent reduction of the time required for the quantification. 
20943381	20101015	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Hydrolysis of different chain length xylooliogmers by cellulase and hemicellulase.	Commercial cellulase complexes produced by cellulolytic fungi contain enzyme activities that are capable of hydrolyzing non-cellulosic polysaccharides in biomass, primarily hemicellulose and pectins, in addition to cellulose. However, xylanase activities detected in most commercial enzyme preparations have been shown to be insufficient to completely hydrolyze xylan, resulting in high xylooligomer concentrations remaining in the hydrolysis broth. Our recent research showed that these xylooligomers are stronger inhibitors of cellulase activity than others have previously established for glucose and cellobiose, making their removal of great importance. In this study, a HPLC system that can measure xylooligomers with degrees of polymerization (DP) up to 30 was applied to assess how Spezyme CP cellulase, Novozyme 188 β-glucosidase, Multifect xylanase, and non-commercial β-xylosidase enzymes hydrolyze different chain length xylooligomers derived from birchwood xylan. Spezyme CP cellulase and Multifect xylanase partially hydrolyzed high DP xylooligomers to lower DP species and monomeric xylose, while β-xylosidase showed the strongest ability to degrade both high and low DP xylooligomers. However, about 10-30% of the higher DP xylooligomers were difficult to be breakdown by cellulase or xylanase and about 5% of low DP xylooligomers (mainly xylobiose) proved resistant to hydrolysis by cellulase or β-glucosidase, possibly due to low β-xylosidase activity in these enzymes and/or the precipitation of high DP xylooligomers. 
20383057	20100413	Autophagy	D016428 D013485 	A vacuolar glucoamylase, Sga1, participates in glycogen autophagy for proper asexual differentiation in Magnaporthe oryzae.	Nutrient limitation acts as a trigger for the synthesis of glycogen, which serves as a carbon and energy reserve during starvation. Recently, we reported that an autophagy-deficient mutant (atg8Δ) shows severe reduction in aerial hyphal growth and conidiation in the rice-blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, and proposed that autophagy plays an important role in facilitating glycogen homeostasis to ensure proper asexual differentiation in Magnaporthe. Here, we identify and characterize a vacuolar glucoamylase function (Sga1) that hydrolyses glycogen to meet the energy requirements during asexual development in Magnaporthe. Loss of SGA1 resulted in significant reduction in conidiation compared to the wild-type Magnaporthe strain. More importantly, an sga1Δ atg8Δ double deletion mutant showed further reduction in conidiation compared to the atg8Δ mutant in Magnaporthe. Forced localization of GFP-Sga1 to the cytoplasm (through removal of the predicted signal peptide) led to increased conidiation in wild type and the sga1Δ, but more interestingly, significantly restored conidiation in the atg8Δ mutant. Our results indicate that autophagy and Sga1 act cooperatively in vacuolar glycogen breakdown, which is essential for conidia formation but dispensable for pathogenicity in Magnaporthe. 
3935049	19850901	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Application of cross-linked carboxymethyl cellulose degradation by beta-glucosidase and vaginal microbes to toxic shock syndrome.	Eleven bacterial and two yeast strains, four of which were previously identified as having activity on a lightly cross-linked carboxymethyl cellulose (CLD-2) found in one type of superabsorbent tampon, were grown on a variety of substrates, most containing cellulosics. None produced detectable amounts of cellulases, but all elaborated beta-glucosidase. None of these 13 strains nor 3 commercially obtained beta-glucosidase preparations could hydrolyze CLD-2, although a commercial cellulase and two other bacterial preparations known to produce cellulases could. Based on these results, it appears that previous work suggesting that the degradation of CLD-2 by vaginal microbes and beta-glucosidase is implicated in the production by Staphylococcus aureus of toxin causing toxic shock syndrome must be reevaluated. 
9626695	19980617	Proteins	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Structural model of Dex protein from Penicillium minioluteum and its implications in the mechanism of catalysis.	The DEX gene encodes an extracellular dextranase (EC 3.2.1.11); this enzyme hydrolyzes the alpha(1,6) glucosidic bond contained in dextran to release small isomaltosaccharides. Sequence analysis has revealed only one homologous sequence, CB-8 protein, from Arthrobacter sp., with 30% sequence identity. The secondary structure prediction for Dex was corroborated by circular dichroism measurements. To explore the possibility that Dex protein might adopt a fold similar to any known structure, we conducted a threading search of a three-dimensional structure database. This search revealed that the Dex sequence is compatible with the galactose oxidase/methanol dehydrogenase/sialidase fold. A structural model of Dex based on these results is physically and biologically plausible and leads to testable predictions, including the prediction that Asp246 and Glu299 might be catalytic residues. Also, according to this model the Dex enzyme has a mechanism of hydrolysis with net inversion of anomeric configuration. 
1627595	19920721	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Formation, separation and characterization of three beta-1,3-glucanases from Sclerotium glucanicum.	The appearance of beta-1,3-glucanases in supernatants of Sclerotium glucanicum cultures was followed by SDS-PAGE and shown to be dependent on cultivation time. Three beta-1,3-glucanases were isolated and purified. Glucanase I and III appeared homogeneous on SDS-PAGE with molecular masses of 85 and 33.5 kDa, respectively. Enzyme I was an endo-splitting beta-1,3-glucanase. In hydrolyzing laminarin it released glucose, laminaritriose and laminaribiose as major endproducts and smaller amounts of higher oligosaccharides. Enzyme III was an exo-beta-1,3-glucanase removing glucose from laminarin and gentiobiose and glucose from scleroglucan. For laminarin as substrate the Km of enzyme I and III was 2.5 and 3.33 mg/ml, respectively. Enzyme II was only partially purified and found to be also an exo-beta-1,3-glucanase, releasing glucose as the only hydrolysis product from laminarin. It did not attack scleroglucan. Its molecular weight was determined to be 78 kDa. Optimum pH and temperature of the three enzymes were determined. The three activities were significantly inhibited by 1 mM Hg2+. 
11847281	20020216	Protein_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	High probability of disrupting a disulphide bridge mediated by an endogenous excited tryptophan residue.	It is well known that ultraviolet (UV) radiation may reduce or even abolish the biological activity of proteins and enzymes. UV light, as a component of sunlight, is illuminating all light-exposed parts of living organisms, partly composed of proteins and enzymes. Although a considerable amount of empirical evidence for UV damage has been compiled, no deeper understanding of this important phenomenon has yet emerged. The present paper presents a detailed analysis of a classical example of UV-induced changes in three-dimensional structure and activity of a model enzyme, cutinase from Fusarium solani pisi. The effect of illumination duration and power has been investigated. A photon-induced mechanism responsible for structural and functional changes is proposed. Tryptophan excitation energy disrupts a neighboring disulphide bridge, which in turn leads to altered biological activity and stability. The loss of the disulphide bridge has a pronounced effect on the fluorescence quantum yield, which has been monitored as a function of illumination power. A general theoretical model for slow two-state chemical exchange is formulated, which allows for calculation of both the mean number of photons involved in the process and the ratio between the quantum yields of the two states. It is clear from the present data that the likelihood for UV damage of proteins is directly proportional to the intensity of the UV radiation. Consistent with the loss of the disulphide bridge, a complex pH-dependent change in the fluorescence lifetimes is observed. Earlier studies in this laboratory indicate that proteins are prone to such UV-induced radiation damage because tryptophan residues typically are located as next spatial neighbors to disulphide bridges. We believe that these observations may have far-reaching implications for protein stability and for assessing the true risks involved in increasing UV radiation loads on living organisms. 
6784113	19800701	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Properties of beta-glucosidase from the fungus Geotrichum candidum 3C].	The ability of beta-glucosidase from the fungus Geotrichum candidum 3C to degrade cell oligosaccharides, disaccharides and glycosides was examined. It was demonstrated that the rate of enzymic hydrolysis of  cell oligosaccharides depended on the length of the substrate chain. The major product was glucose. The beta-glucosidase purified showed high specificity towards beta-glucopyranosyl and degraded only the glucosides which incorporated beta-glucopyranosyl. The enzyme had a relatively low specificity towards aglycon, and hydrolyzed both disaccharides and aryl-glucosides. The enzyme also showed traansglycosylase activity. 
11549760	20010911	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Secretory bulk flow of soluble proteins is efficient and COPII dependent.	COPII-coated vesicles, first identified in yeast and later characterized in mammalian cells, mediate protein export from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi apparatus within the secretory pathway. In these organisms, the mechanism of vesicle formation is well understood, but the process of soluble cargo sorting has yet to be resolved. In plants, functional complements of the COPII-dependent protein traffic machinery were identified almost a decade ago, but the selectivity of the ER export process has been subject to considerable debate. To study the selectivity of COPII-dependent protein traffic in plants, we have developed an in vivo assay in which COPII vesicle transport is disrupted at two distinct steps in the pathway. First, overexpression of the Sar1p-specific guanosine nucleotide exchange factor Sec12p was shown to result in the titration of the GTPase Sar1p, which is essential for COPII-coated vesicle formation. A second method to disrupt COPII transport at a later step in the pathway was based on coexpression of a dominant negative mutant of Sar1p (H74L), which is thought to interfere with the uncoating and subsequent membrane fusion of the vesicles because of the lack of GTPase activity. A quantitative assay to measure ER export under these conditions was achieved using the natural secretory protein barley alpha-amylase and a modified version carrying an ER retention motif. Most importantly, the manipulation of COPII transport in vivo using either of the two approaches allowed us to demonstrate that export of the ER resident protein calreticulin or the bulk flow marker phosphinothricin acetyl transferase is COPII dependent and occurs at a much higher rate than estimated previously. We also show that the instability of these proteins in post-ER compartments prevents the detection of the true rate of bulk flow using a standard secretion assay. The differences between the data on COPII transport obtained from these in vivo experiments and in vitro experiments conducted previously using yeast components are discussed. 
12690417	20030412	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of Aspergillus oryzae fermentation extract effects on the rumen fungus Neocallimastix frontalis, EB 188. Part 1. Zoospore development and physiology.	Experiments were performed to determine the effect of Aspergillus oryzae (AO) fermentation extract on zoospore development in the rumen fungus Neocallimastix frontalis EB 188. Powdered product, or liquid extract prepared from such powder, was added at the recommended value for supplementation in dairy cattle. Stationary and stirred cultures were periodically sampled and assayed for extracellular and intracellular protein and enzymes, gas production, zoospore production and maturation, and carbon source utilization. Soluble extract increased fungal physiology when grown in stirred vessels or stationary cultures. Treated cultures produced higher levels of enzymes (nearly double). Mobile zoospores matured into germination entities more rapidly in treated cultures, and when powdered product was used, nearly 3 times more motile zoospores were produced at 56 h of fungal growth. Levels of the intracellular enzyme malate dehydrogenase increased by 6-fold in the presence of powdered product. Product wheat bran carrier used as soluble extract or powder had very little effect on fungal cultures. Medium cellulose was completely hydrolyzed in all cultures but this occurred earlier in those containing AO treatment. 
14646097	20031204	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic studies of alpha-galactosidase I from Mortierella vinacea.	alpha-Galactosidases catalyze the hydrolysis of a galactosyl residue from galactooligosaccharides and galactopolysaccharides. alpha-Galactosidase I from Mortierella vinacea was crystallized in two crystal forms using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. Type 1 crystals belonged to space group I422, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 142.4, c = 131.5 A, and diffracted to beyond 2.1 A resolution, while type 2 crystals belonged to space group P4, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 100.9, c = 102.7 A, and diffracted to beyond 1.6 A resolution. This enzyme crystallized as a glycoprotein tetramer and the tetrameric structure was located around the crystallographic fourfold axis. 
22961332	20120911	Protein_Eng._Des._Sel.	D016428 D013486 	Highly thermostable fungal cellobiohydrolase I (Cel7A) engineered using predictive methods.	Building on our previous efforts to generate thermostable chimeric fungal cellobiohydrolase I (CBH I, also known as Cel7A) cellulases by structure-guided recombination, we used FoldX and a 'consensus' sequence approach to identify individual mutations present in the five homologous parent CBH I enzymes which further stabilize the chimeras. Using the FoldX force field, we calculated the effect on ΔG(Folding) of each candidate mutation in a number of CBH I structures and chose those predicted to be stabilizing in multiple structures. With an alignment of 41 CBH I sequences, we also used amino acid frequencies at each candidate position to calculate predicted effects on ΔG(Folding). A combination of mutations chosen using these methods increased the T(50) of the most thermostable chimera by an additional 4.7°C, to yield a CBH I with T(50) of 72.1°C, which is 9.2°C higher than that of the most stable native CBH I, from Talaromyces emersonii. This increased stability resulted in a 10°C increase in the optimal temperature for activity, to 65°C, and a 50% increase in total sugar production from crystalline cellulose at the optimal temperature, compared with native T.emersonii CBH I. 
8589408	19950701	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013486 	Nrs1, a repetitive element linked to pisatin demethylase genes on a dispensable chromosome of Nectria haematococca.	We have identified a repetitive DNA element in Nectria haematococca mating population VI, isolate T-2. This repetitive sequence has been called Nrs1. DNA hybridization analysis indicates the sequence is found in several isolates of the fungus pathogenic to Pisum sativum. A 2,027-bp clone containing the Nrs1-2 allele contains a long polyA sequence, imperfect RNA polymerase III promoter sequences, multiple inverted repeats, and the potential for extensive secondary structure similar to known RNA polymerase III transcripts and related retroelements. Ten of the 11 HindIII restriction fragments from isolate T-2 DNA that hybridize to Nrs1-2 segregate in a manner consistent with a 1:1 ratio for random ascospore progeny. The 10 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) loci define three linkage groups and correspond to three chromosome-sized DNAs from T-2 separated by pulsed field gel electrophoresis. Three RFLP loci defined by hybridization to the gene for pisatin demethylase and localized on the 1.6 million base pair (Mb) chromosome were genetically linked to each other and to several Nrs1 loci. These sequences recombined despite the fact that no obvious homolog exists for the 1.6-Mb chromosome in one parent strain. Allelic RFLPs corresponding to the gene sequence of cutinase were unlinked to Nrs1 loci. 
17983432	20071107	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Production, purification and characterization of chitosanase produced by Gongronella sp. JG.	To optimize the production condition of chitosanases of Gongronella sp. JG and to characterize the major chitosanase. In the optimized medium and culturing condition, strain JG produced 800 micromol min(-1) l(-1) chitosanase activity at 72 h. The major chitosanase - csn1 was purified through three chromatography steps: CM (carboxymethyl)-Sepharose fast flow (FF), Sephacryl S200, SP (sulfopropyl)-Sepharose FF. The molecular weight and the pI value of csn1 were about 90,000 Da and 5 x 8, respectively. Its specific activity was 82 micromol min(-1) mg(-1). The optimal reaction pH for csn1 was between 4 x 6 and 4 x 8. The optimal reaction temperature was 50 degrees C. The half-life of csn1 at 50 degrees C was estimated to be about 65 min. Mn(2+) was a strong stimulator of csn1 activity, both at 1 and 10 mmol l(-1). csn1 showed its highest activity with chitosan of 85% degree of deacetylation, but did not hydrolyse colloidal chitin and carboxylmethyl cellulose. In 20 mmol l(-1) sodium acetate buffer (pH 4 x 8) and at 50 degrees C, the K(m) of csn1 was calculated to be 4 x 5 mg ml(-1). The production condition of chitosanases by Gongronella JG was optimized and the major chitosanase, csn1, was characterized. The present work for the first time reported the production, purification and characterization of chitosanases produced by fungus of Gongronella sp. These results provided us more information on fungal chitosanases. 
15683395	20050203	Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic activity, osmotic stress and degradation of pesticide mixtures in soil extract liquid broth inoculated with Phanerochaete chrysosporium and Trametes versicolor.	In this study we examined the extracellular enzymatic activity of two white rot fungi (Phanerochaete chrysosporium and Trametes versicolor) in a soil extract broth in relation to differential degradation of a mixture of different concentrations (0-30 p.p.m.) of simazine, dieldrin and trifluralin under different osmotic stress (-0.7 and -2.8 MPa) and quantified enzyme production, relevant to P and N release (phosphomonoesterase, protease), carbon cycling (beta-glucosidase, cellulase) and laccase activity, involved in lignin degradation. Our results suggest that T. versicolor and P. chrysosporium have the ability to degrade different groups of pesticides, supported by the capacity for expression of a range of extracellular enzymes at both -0.7 and -2.8 MPa water potential. Phanerochaete chrysosporium was able to degrade this mixture of pesticides independently of laccase activity. In soil extract, T. versicolor was able to produce the same range of enzymes as P. chrysoporium plus laccase, even in the presence of 30 p.p.m. of the pesticide mixture. Complete degradation of dieldrin and trifluralin was observed, while about 80% of the simazine was degraded regardless of osmotic stress treatment in a nutritionally poor soil extract broth. The capacity of tolerance and degradation of high concentrations of mixtures of pesticides and production of a range of enzymes, even under osmotic stress, suggest potential bioremediation applications. 
1654681	19910701	Yeast	D003160 D016428 	Expression of the alpha-galactosidase from Cyamopsis tetragonoloba (guar) by Hansenula polymorpha.	The methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha, a host organism for the production of heterologous proteins, has been applied to produce the alpha-galactosidase from the plant Cyamopsis tetragonoloba (guar). The yeast/Escherichia coli shuttle expression vector used is based on the origin of replication of the endogenous 2 microns plasmid of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the LEU2 gene of S. cerevisiae for selection in H. polymorpha. In the expression vector, the alpha-galactosidase is controlled by the methanol-regulated promoter from the methanol oxidase gene, MOX, of H. polymorpha. The signal sequence of SUC2 (invertase) from the yeast S. cerevisiae, was used to ensure secretion of the alpha-galactosidase enzyme. After transformation and stabilization, the expression vector was stably integrated in the genome. The active alpha-galactosidase enzyme was efficiently secreted (greater than 85%) and after methanol induction, the expression level was 42 mg/l. Amino-terminal sequencing of the purified alpha-galactosidase enzyme synthesized by H. polymorpha showed that the S. cerevisiae invertase signal sequence was correctly processed by H. polymorpha. The secreted alpha-galactosidase was glycosylated and had a sugar content of 9.5%. The specific activity of the alpha-galactosidase produced by H. polymorpha was 38 U mg-1 compared to 100 U mg-1 for the guar alpha-galactosidase. Deglycosylation of the H. polymorpha alpha-galactosidase restored the specific activity completely. 
19880314	20091103	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013486 	Optimizing the saccharification of sugar cane bagasse using dilute phosphoric acid followed by fungal cellulases.	A low level of phosphoric acid (1% w/w on dry bagasse basis, 160 degrees C and above, 10 min) was shown to effectively hydrolyze the hemicellulose in sugar cane bagasse into monomers with minimal side reactions and to serve as an effective pre-treatment for the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose. Up to 45% of the remaining water-insoluble solids (WIS) was digested to sugar monomers by a low concentration of Biocellulase W (0.5 filter paper unit/gWIS) supplemented with beta-glucosidase, although much higher levels of cellulase (100-fold) were required for complete hydrolysis. After neutralization and nutrient addition, phosphoric acid syrups of hemicellulose sugars were fermented by ethanologenic Escherichia coli LY160 without further purification. Fermentation of these syrups was preceded by a lag that increased with increased pre-treatment temperature. Further improvements in organisms and optimization of steam treatments may allow the co-fermentation of sugars derived from hemicellulose and cellulose, eliminating need for liquid-solid separation, sugar purification, and separate fermentations. 
6777040	19801101	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Hydrolysis of alpha-D-glucans and alpha-D-gluco-oligosaccharides by Cladosporium resinae glucoamylases.	Culture filtrates of Cladosporium resinae ATCC 20495 contain a mixture of enzymes able to convert starch and pullulan efficiently into D-glucose. Culture conditions for optimal production of the pullulan-degrading activity have been established. The amylolytic enzyme preparation was fractionated by ion-exchange and molecular-sieve chromatography, and shown to contain alpha-D-glucosidase, alpha-amylase, and two glucoamylases. The glucoamylases have been purified to homogeneity and their substrate specificities investigated. One of the glucoamylases (termed P) readily hydrolyses the (1 leads to 6)-alpha-D linkages in pullulan, amylopectin, isomaltose, panose, and 6(3)-alpha-D-glucosylmaltotriose. Each of the glucoamylases cleaves the (1 leads to 6)-alpha-D linkage in panose much more readily than that in isomaltose. 
19506859	20090610	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Substrate specificity of Myriococcum thermophilum cellobiose dehydrogenase on mono-, oligo-, and polysaccharides related to in situ production of H2O2.	Cellobiose dehydrogenase from the ascomycete fungus Myriococcum thermophilum (MtCDH) was tested for the ability to generate bleaching species at a pH suitable for liquid detergents. The catalytic properties of MtCDH were investigated for a large variety of carbohydrate substrates using oxygen as an electron receptor. MtCDH produces H2O2 with all substrates tested (except fructose) but only in the presence of a chelant. Insoluble substrates like cellulose and cotton could as well be oxidized by MtCDH. To enhance the amount of cello-oligosaccharides in solution, different cellulases on cotton were used and in combination with MtCDH an increased H2O2 concentration could be measured. Additionally, the degradation of pure anthocyanins in solution (as model substrates for bleaching) was investigated in the absence and presence of a horseradish peroxidase. MtCDH was able to produce a sufficient amount of H2O2 to decolorize the anthocyanins within 2 h. 
8669906	19960101	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013486 	Cloning and expression of full-length Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I cDNAs in Escherichia coli.	The process of converting lignocellulosic biomass to ethanol via fermentation depends on developing economic sources of cellulases. Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase (CBH) I is a key enzyme in the fungal cellulase system; however, specific process application requirements make modification of the enzyme by site-directed mutagenesis (SDM) an attractive goal. To undertake SDM investigations, an efficient, cellulase-free host is required. To test the potential of Escherichia coli as a host, T. reesei CBH I cDNA was expressed in E. coli strain GI 724 as a C-terminal fusion to thermostable thioredoxin protein. Full-length expression of CBH I was subsequently verified by molecular weight, Western blot analysis, and activity on soluble substrates. 
23201519	20121204	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Lignocellulosic biomass as a carbohydrate source for lipid production by Mortierella isabellina.	Various carbon sources including monosugars, disaccharides and carboxymethyl-cellulose (CMC) were used for single-cell oil production by the filamentous fungus Mortierella isabellina. In addition, the inhibitory effects of lignocellulose-derived compounds (lignin aldehydes, furan aldehydes and weak acid) were investigated. C6 sugars were preferably used for growth compared to C5 sugars. CMC was not an usable substrate, implying the absence of a cellulase system in this fungus. Lignin derivatives showed the most inhibitory effects, but acetic and formic acids at concentrations of 4 g/L improved lipid production, achieving 6.81 ± 0.07 g/L and 6.66 ± 0.33 g/L respectively, which was twice as high as that of the control. A 16.8% lipid yield from hydrolysate suggested that this fungus could be useful for microbial lipid production. 
11572457	20010927	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Strain typing of polish Leptosphaeria maculans isolates supports at the genomic level the multi-species concept of aggressive and non-aggressive strains.	47 Polish isolates of the blackleg fungus Leptosphaeria maculans (Phoma lingam) were compared with eight well-defined reference strains from Germany, France, Denmark, Australia and one Polish isolate of Phoma nigrificans. The isolates were tested (i) for growth characteristics, (ii) for their ability to form sirodesmins, (iii) for cellulolytic enzymes, and (iv) for pathotype-differentiating molecular markers generated by RAPD-PCR, PCR analysis with pathotype-specific primer pairs and PFGE. With two exceptions all Polish isolates do not form sirodesmins. grow rapidly without penetrating into the substrate and form in most cases yellow or brown pigments in Czapek-Dox liquid cultures. With respect to cellulase secretion and molecular fingerprinting Polish A strains (aggressive) fit into the general picture of the aggressive pathotype group, whereas the NA isolates (non-aggressive) display a higher degree of heterogeneity. This matches with inoculation tests on rape seedlings, which revealed a considerable number of isolates ranging in aggressivity between the conventional A and NA pathotype group. Molecular fingerprinting techniques unequivocally sorted intermediately aggressive isolates into the NA pathotype group. Isolate Ph Bial, which produces sirodesmin but groups within NA isolates according to molecular and physiological markers, may represent a novel third group besides A and NA strains with intermediate aggressivity (IA). We hybridized Southern blots of electrophoretically separated chromosomes with radioactively labelled PCR fragments used for differentiation between A and NA isolates. The specificity of diagnostic PCR amplicons is reflected at the genomic level. The A probe reveals a single hybridizing chromosome exclusively in A strains. The NA probe reveals several chromosomes and is specific for the NA pathotype group. Chromosomes from intermediately aggressive strains are equally well recognized by the NA probe as are Polish isolates with low aggressivity and give no signal with the A probe. Both diagnostic DNA sequences are highly specific for the pathotype group they were derived from. The lack of correspondence of both genetic elements between A and NA strains strongly supports the idea of ascribing the pathotype groups to different species. Whereas the A pathotype group is genetically homogeneous and congruent with the species Leptosphaeria maculans, the NA group needs to be revised taxonomically. NA isolates will presumably have to be split into several independent species. 
15358520	20040911	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Elicitor-induced activation of transcription via W box-related cis-acting elements from a basic chitinase gene by WRKY transcription factors in tobacco.	A putative elicitor responsive element with two W boxes (CTGACC/T) has been identified in the region between -125 and -69 of a tobacco class I basic chitinase gene CHN48. We generated transgenic tobacco calli that contained the -125/-69 region fused to a luciferase reporter gene. The expression of the reporter gene was induced upon treatment with an elicitor, xylanase from Trichoderma viride (TvX). This induction required protein kinase activity. We isolated three cDNA clones encoding DNA-binding proteins, designated as NtWRKY1, NtWRKY2, and NtWRKY4, from tobacco cultured cells. Gel mobility shift assays showed that in vitro translation products of NtWRKY1, NtWRKY2 and NtWRKY4 bound to W box of CHN48 gene. These NtWRKY proteins stimulated W box-mediated transcription of a luciferase reporter gene in the transient assay. In addition, the transactivation of W box-mediated transcription by NtWRKY1 and NtWRKY4 was enhanced in response to elicitor treatment, suggesting elicitor-induced posttranscriptional activation of these NtWRKYs. Northern blot analyses showed that mRNAs for NtWRKY1 and NtWRKY2 increased after treatment with the elicitor, whereas mRNAs for NtWRKY4 were expressed constitutively at a low level. These results suggested possible involvement of NtWRKYs in elicitor-responsive transcription of defense genes in tobacco. 
3497057	19870727	FEBS_Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Nucleotide sequence of the alpha-amylase gene (ALP1) in the yeast Saccharomycopsis fibuligera.	The complete nucleotide sequence of the secretable alpha-amylase gene ALP1 from the yeast Saccharomycopsis fibuligera has been determined. The ALP1 DNA hybridized to a polyadenylated RNA of 2.0 kilobases. A single open reading frame encodes a 494-amino acid protein which is highly homologous with alpha-amylase (Taka-amylase) of a fungus Aspergillus oryzae. 
9090049	19970315	Yeast	D016428 	Multiple copies of PBS2, MHP1 or LRE1 produce glucanase resistance and other cell wall effects in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Five sequences were isolated by selection for multiple copy plasmids that conferred resistance to laminarinase, an enzyme that specifically degrades cell wall beta(1-3) glucan linkages. Strains carrying three of these plasmids showed alterations in cell wall glucan labelling. One of these plasmids carried PBS2, a previously identified, non-essential gene which produces a variety of phenotypes and encodes a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase analogue (Boguslawski and Polazzi, 1987). Cells carrying PBS2 at multiple copy show a small decrease in cell wall beta(1-6) glucans. Measurements of beta(1-3) glucan synthase activity in multi-copy PBS2 cells showed an approximate 30-45% increase in enzyme specific activity while a pbs2 delta disruption strain showed a decrease in glucan synthase activity of approximately 45% relative to control. A pbs2 delta disruption strain was laminarinase super-sensitive and supersensitive to K1 killer toxin while a strain carrying PBS2 at multiple copy was resistant to killer toxin. A second plasmid carried a portion of the MHP1 gene which has been reported to encode a microtubule-interacting protein (Irminger-Finger et al., 1996). The MHP1 gene product is a predicted 1398 amino acid protein and only approximately 80% of the amino portion of this protein is required for laminarinase resistance. Cells carrying the amino portion of MHP1 at multiple copy show a decrease in high molecular weight cell wall beta(1-6) glucans and were killer toxin resistant while a disruption strain was viable and killer toxin super-sensitive. Cells carrying this plasmid showed decreased levels of high molecular weight beta(1-6) glucans and increased glucan synthase activity. The laminarinase resistance conferred by the third plasmid mapped to the previously uncharacterized YCL051W open reading frame and this gene was therefore named LRE1 (laminarinase resistance). The LRE1 gene encodes a non-essential 604 amino acid hydrophilic protein. Unexpectedly, cells carrying LRE1 at multiple copy show no alteration in cell wall glucans or glucan synthase activity. Subcloning experiments demonstrated that the production of these cell wall effects requires the presence of both LRE1 and YCL052C (PBN1), a second open reading frame present on the original plasmid. Cells carrying multiple copies of PBN1 alone show no significant alterations in cell wall glucans or glucan synthase activity, indicating that these effects require the presence of multiple copies of both genes. 
12889	19770103	Clin._Chim._Acta	D003160 D016428 	N-Acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in hydatidiform mole.	The N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in hydatidiform mole is two-fold higher than that in full-term placenta. Qualitatively, the enzymes from the two tissues are similar with respect to KM values and pH optima. Both enzymes also contain a new isoenzyme form detectable by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. However, the molar enzyme is more susceptible to heat denaturation, presumably due to the presence of a higher level of the heat-labile isoenzyme form A in this tissue. Data are also presented incicating that the placenta is not the source of the N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in maternal serum. 
15928983	20050602	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Degradation of cellulose by the bean-pathogenic fungus Colletotrichum lindemuthianum. Production of extracellular cellulolytic enzymes by cellulose induction.	Colletotrichum lindemuthianum was able to grow and produce extracellular cellulolytic activity in a defined medium containing cellulose as the main carbon substrate. As measured either by the hydrolysis of 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D -cellotrioside or the release of glucose from carboxymethylcellulose, activity reached a peak after 13 days of incubation and then declined whereas growth markedly increased afterwards. Detection of glucose in carboxymethylcellulose hydrolysates suggested the concerted operation of endo-1,4-beta-glucanase, cellobiohydrolase (exo-1,4-beta-glucanase) and beta-glucosidase activities. The highest levels of cellulolytic activity were obtained in media supplemented with cellulose and glutamate. Other carbon and nitrogen sources markedly influenced growth and enzyme production. Oligonucleotides homologous to specific regions of the cellobiohydrolase-encoding cbhII gene from Trichoderma reesei were used to isolate a C. lindemuthianum cbhII-DNA fragment whose sequence revealed homologies of 98% and 92% with the nucleotide and the deduced amino acid sequences of the corresponding cbhII-DNA of T. reesei, respectively. RT-PCR and Southern blot analyses of total RNA samples obtained from cellulose-grown but not from glucose-grown mycelium revealed the expression of the corresponding cbhII transcript. The cbhII-cDNA fragment was cloned and sequenced. 
2995925	19850911	Nucleic_Acids_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Nucleotide sequence of Candida pelliculosa beta-glucosidase gene.	The nucleotide sequence of the DNA fragment containing the beta-glucosidase gene of Candida pelliculosa was determined. Analysis of the sequence revealed three open reading frames which could encode 65,825, and 412 amino acid residues. The presence of the second frame was found to be sufficient for the expression of the beta-glucosidase gene in a heterologous host Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Putative protein encoded by this gene had hydrophobic amino acids, resembling a signal peptide, at its N-terminal region and 19 potential glycosylation sites. Codon usage of Candida genes had the similar pattern shown in S.cerevisiae. Codon bias of the beta-glucosidase gene of Candida was relatively low, compared with that of the highly expressed genes of S. cerevisiae. 
24425333	20140116	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Cellulolytic enzymes of a thermotolerantAspergillus terreus strain and their action on cellulosic substrates.	A thermotolerant fungal strainAspergillus terreus produced high activities of cellulolytic enzymes when grown in shake flasks for 8 days at 40°C or 14 days at 28°C in medium containing 2.5% (w/v) cellulose powder and 1% (w/v) wheat bran. There was little difference between the final activities of endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase (ca. 14.4 U/ml); filter paper activity (ca. 1.3 U/ml) and β-glucosidase (ca. 10 U/ml). Endoglucanase had maximum activity at 60°C and pH 3.8; the other two enzymes were optimal at 60°C and pH 4.8. The maximum hydrolysis of different cellulosic substrates (about 50%) was obtained within 48 h when 1.1 U/ml of filter paper cellulase activity were employed to saccharify 100 mg alkali-treated cotton, filter paper, bagasse, and rice straw at 50°C and pH 4.8. The major end-product, glucose, was produced from all substrates, with traces of cellobiose and other larger oligosaccharides being present in rice straw hydrolysates.  
20209334	20100309	Mem._Inst._Oswaldo_Cruz	D016428 D013485 	Purification and biochemical characterisation of endoplasmic reticulum alpha1,2-mannosidase from Sporothrix schenckiil.	Alpha 1,2-mannosidases from glycosyl hydrolase family 47 participate in N-glycan biosynthesis. In filamentous fungi and mammalian cells, alpha1,2-mannosidases are present in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi complex and are required to generate complex N-glycans. However, lower eukaryotes such Saccharomyces cerevisiae contain only one alpha1,2-mannosidase in the lumen of the ER and synthesise high-mannose N-glycans. Little is known about the N-glycan structure and the enzyme machinery involved in the synthesis of these oligosaccharides in the dimorphic fungus Sporothrix schenckii. Here, a membrane-bound alpha-mannosidase from S. schenckii was solubilised using a high-temperature procedure and purified by conventional methods of protein isolation. Analytical zymograms revealed a polypeptide of 75 kDa to be responsible for enzyme activity and this purified protein was recognised by anti-alpha1,2-mannosidase antibodies. The enzyme hydrolysed Man(9)GlcNAc(2) into Man(8)GlcNAc(2) isomer B and was inhibited preferentially by 1-deoxymannojirimycin. This alpha1,2-mannosidase was localised in the ER, with the catalytic domain within the lumen of this compartment. These properties are consistent with an ER-localised alpha1,2-mannosidase of glycosyl hydrolase family 47. Our results also suggested that in contrast to other filamentous fungi, S. schenckii lacks Golgi alpha1,2-mannosidases and therefore, the processing of N-glycans by alpha1,2-mannosidases is similar to that present in lower eukaryotes. 
12627400	20030311	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	RHO1 (YlRHO1) is a non-essential gene in Yarrowia lipolytica and complements rho1Delta lethality in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The synthesis of beta-1,3-glucan, the structural component of the yeast cell wall that gives shape to the cell, occurs at the plasma membrane and is the result of the activity of at least a two-component complex. Fks1p is the catalytic subunit directly responsible for the synthesis of beta-1,3-glucan, whilst the second subunit, Rho1p, has a GTP-dependent regulatory role (Yamochi et al., 1994). RHO1 has been characterized in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Yamochi et al., 1994), and in several other fungal species. In this work, we have used degenerate oligonucleotides derived from the conserved regions of Rho1ps to isolate the RHO1 gene of Yarrowia lipolytica. The gene isolated in this way, which we have named YlRHO1, encodes a 204 amino acid protein that shows a high degree of homology with other Rho1ps. However, unlike S. cerevisiae, the ylrho1Delta disruptant strain in Y. lipolytica is viable, although it exhibits an increased sensitivity to Calcofluor white and Congo red. Also, YlRHO1 complements rho1 lethality in S. cerevisiae at both 28 degrees C and 37 degrees C. The complete sequence of YlRHO1 can be obtained from GenBank under Accession No. AF279915. 
15749766	20050308	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013485 	A novel plant cysteine protease has a dual function as a regulator of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic Acid synthase gene expression.	The hormone ethylene influences plant growth, development, and some defense responses. The fungal elicitor Ethylene-Inducing Xylanase (EIX) elicits ethylene biosynthesis in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves by induction of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-caboxylic acid synthase (Acs) gene expression. A minimal promoter element in the LeAcs2 gene required for EIX responsiveness was defined by deletion analysis in transgenic tomato plants. The sequence between -715 and -675 of the tomato Acs2 gene was found to be essential for induction by EIX. A Cys protease (LeCp) was isolated that specifically binds to this cis element in vitro. Ectopic expression of LeCp in tomato leaves induced the expression of Acs2. Moreover, chromatin immunoprecipitation showed that LeCp binds in vivo to the Acs promoter. We propose a mechanism for the dual function of the LeCp protein. The protease acts enzymatically in the cytoplasm. Then, upon signaling, a small ubiquitin-related modifier protein binds to it, enabling entrance into the nucleus, where it acts as a transcription factor. Thus, LeCp can be considered a dual-function protein, having enzymatic activity and, upon elicitor signaling, exhibiting transcriptional factor activity that induces LeAcs2 expression. 
16657425	19700701	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Polysaccharide-degrading Enzymes are Unable to Attack Plant Cell Walls without Prior Action by a "Wall-modifying Enzyme".	A study of the degradation of plant cell walls by the mixture of enzymes present in Pectinol R-10 is described. A "wall-modifying enzyme" has been purified from this mixture by a combination of diethylaminoethyl cellulose, Bio Gel P-100, and carboxymethyl cellulose chromatography. Treatment of cell walls with the "wall-modifying enzyme" is shown to be a necessary prerequisite to wall degradation catalyzed by a mixture of polysaccharide-degrading enzymes prepared from Pectinol R-10 or by an alpha-galactosidase secreted by the pathogenic fungus Colletotrichum lindemuthianum. The action of the "wall-modifying enzyme" on cell walls is shown to result in both a release of water-soluble, 70% ethanol-insoluble polymers and an alteration of the residual cell wall. A purified preparation of the "wall-modifying enzyme" is unable to degrade a wide variety of polysaccharide, glycoside, and peptide substrates. However, the purified preparation of wall-modifying enzyme has a limited ability to degrade polygalacturonic acid. The fact that polygalacturonic acid inhibits the ability of the "wall-modifying enzyme" to affect cell walls suggests that the "wall-modifying enzyme" may be responsible for the limited polygalacturonic acid-degrading activity present in the purified preparation. The importance of a wall-modifying enzyme in developmental processes and in pathogenesis is discussed. 
22654171	20120602	Indian_J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Storage and preservation of temperate mushroom cultures, agaricus bisporus and pleurotus Florida.	Two temperate mushroom cultures namely Agaricus bisporus (U-3) and Pleurotus florida (PAU-5) were evaluated for their physiological (linear growth and biomass production), biochemical (β-1,4 endoglucanase production) and fruiting behaviour after preservation in 10% (v/v) glycerol and storage at room temperature (25-35°C), -20°C and -196°C for 6 months with the objective of establishing the recovery/changes in these fungi after storage. Studies indicated that the viability and recovery of A. bisporus and P. florida is affected by the storage conditions. Both the fungi could be best stored in liquid nitrogen for longer durations but for regular use, conventional sub-culturing was appropriate. 
18553487	19840801	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Effect of dilution on carboxymethylcellulase and xylanase assays.	It has been demonstrated that the dilution of samples prior to the carboxymethylcellulase and xylanase assays causes serious discrepancies in the numerical values obtained for the enzyme activities. Even when the sample is assayed with the identical procedure, one could obtain different numerical values of the enzyme activity U depending on how much this sample has been diluted before the enzyme assay. Two crude commercial cellulase samples of Aspergillus niger and Trichoderma viride as well as the culture filtrate of our newly isolated acidophilic fungus have been used for the demonstration. An empirical method for reporting the cellulolytic activity by taking into account this dilution effect is proposed. 
21339977	20110223	Int_J_Mol_Sci	D016428 D013485 	The chitinolytic activities of Streptomyces sp. TH-11.	Chitin is an abundant biopolymer composed of units of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine linked by β-1,4 glycosidic bonds. Chitin is the main component of the shells of mollusks, the cell wall of fungi and yeast and of the exoskeleton of crustaceans and insects. The degradation of chitin is catalyzed by chitinases that occur in a wide range of organisms. Among them, the chitinases from microorganisms are extremely important for the degradation and recycling of the carbon and nitrogen trapped in the large amount of insoluble chitin in nature. Streptomyces sp. TH-11 was isolated from the sediment of the Tou-Chien River, Taiwan. The chitinolytic enzyme activities were detected using a rapid in-gel detection method from the cell-free preparation of the culture medium of TH-11. The chitinolytic enzyme activity during prolonged liquid culturing was also analyzed by direct measurement of the chitin consumption. Decomposition of the exoskeleton of shrimps was demonstrated using electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy. 
1648007	19910515	Gene	D016428 	Mutations of the alpha-galactosidase signal peptide which greatly enhance secretion of heterologous proteins by yeast.	The Saccharomyces carlsbergensis MEL1 gene encodes alpha-galactosidase (melibiase; MEL1) which is readily secreted by yeast cells into the culture medium. To evaluate the utility of the MEL1 signal peptide (sp) for the secretion of heterologous proteins by Saccharomyces cerevisiae, an expression vector was constructed which contains the MEL1 promoter and MEL1 sp coding sequence (MEL1sp). The coding sequences for echistatin (Echis) and human plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) were inserted in-frame with the MEL1sp. S. cerevisiae transformants containing the resulting expression vectors secreted negligible amounts of either Echis or PAI-1. Using site-directed mutagenesis, several mutations were introduced into the MEL1sp. Two mutations were identified which dramatically increased the secretion of both Echis and PAI-1 to levels similar to those achieved when using the yeast MF alpha 1 pre-pro secretory leader. In particular, increasing the hydrophobicity of the core region plus the addition of a positive charge to the N-terminal domain of the MEL1 sp resulted in the greatest increase in the secretion levels of those two proteins. 
15381976	20040924	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Transfer of a plant chitinase gene into a nitrogen-fixing Azospirillum and study of its expression.	Azospirillum is used extensively in rice and other cereal crops as a biofertilizer. There is a substantial opportunity to improve the efficiency of this bacterium through the transfer of genes of agricultural importance from other organisms. Chitinases are antifungal proteins, and expression of chitinase genes in Azospirillum would help to develop strains with potential antifungal activities. So far there are no reports about transfer of plant genes into Azospirillum and their expression. The present study was aimed at expressing an antifungal gene (a rice chitinase) of plant origin in Azospirillum brasilense. A rice chitinase cDNA (RC 7) that codes for a 35 kDa protein was subcloned into a broad host range plasmid pDSK519 under the control of LacZ promoter. The plasmid was mobilized into the nitrogen-fixing bacterium, Azospirillum brasilense strain SP51eFL1, through biparental mating. The conjugation frequency was in the range of 35-40 x 10(-6). The transconjugants grew in nitrogen-free media and fixed gaseous nitrogen in vitro. However, their growth and nitrogen-fixing ability were slightly less than those of the wild-type. Expression of the protein was demonstrated through western blotting of the total cell protein, which detected a 35 kDa band that was immuno-reactive to a barley chitinase antibody. The cell lysates also hydrolyzed various chitin substrates, which resulted in release of free sugars demonstrating the chitinase activity of transconjugants. The expressed protein also had antifungal activity as demonstrated by inhibition of growth of the plant pathogenic fungus, Rhizoctonia solani. 
10612723	19991229	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Stimulation of hyphal growth in anaerobic cultures of Mucor rouxii by extracellular trehalose. Relevance of cell wall-bound activity of acid trehalase for trehalose utilization.	In fungi, the hydrolysis of extracellular trehalose is carried out by acid trehalases. These secretory glycoproteins may be more abundant either in the vacuolar compartment, like in yeast, or at the cell surface, such as in many filamentous fungi. The relative efficiency of these two compartments for the utilization of extracellular trehalose was investigated using as a model the dimorphic fungus Mucor rouxii, which produces yeast-like cells under a CO(2) atmosphere, or hyphae in the presence of air. Under CO(2), cultures supplemented with glucose produced yeast-like cells devoid of acid trehalase activity. On the other hand, trehalose-supplemented cultures developed hyphae exhibiting cell wall-bound and intracellular acid trehalase activity. Glucose-grown yeast-like cells supplemented with trehalose after glucose exhaustion, induced intracellular activity of acid trehalase, but no activity was detected at the cell surface. Even endowed of significant intracellular activity of acid trehalase, these cells did not grow further. When exposed to air these yeast-like produced germ tubes exhibiting cell wall-bound acid trehalase activity. These results suggest that the utilization of extracellular trehalose as a source of carbon for growth requires the localization of acid trehalase activity at the cell surface. Our results also show that extracellular trehalose elicits a morphogenetic phenomenon, inducing the formation of hyphae which are the physiological support for acid trehalase activity. 
23624166	20130430	Int._J._Biol._Macromol.	D016428 D013485 	Structural and functional studies on urease from pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan).	Urease is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of urea, forming ammonia and carbon dioxide, and is found in plants, microorganisms and invertebrates. Although plant and bacterial ureases are closely related at amino acid and at the structural level, the insecticidal activity is seen only in the plant ureases. In contrast, both plant and bacterial ureases exhibit antifungal activity. These two biological properties are independent of its ureolytic activity. However, till date the mechanism(s) behind the insecticidal and fungicidal activity of ureases are not clearly understood. Here we report the crystal structure of pigeon pea urease (PPU, Cajanus cajan) which is the second structure from the plant source. We have deduced the amino acid sequence of PPU and also report here studies on its stability, insecticidal and antifungal activity. PPU exhibits cellulase activity. Based on the structural analysis of PPU and docking studies with cellopentoase we propose a possible mechanism of antifungal activity of urease. 
16694	19770501	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 	An endo-(1 leads to 3)-beta-D-glucanase from Mucor hiemalis.	An endo-(1 leads to 3)-beta-D-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.6), isolated from the culture filtrate of the fungus Mucor hiemalis, was purified by ammonium sulfate fractionation, gel filtration, and column chromatography on O-(carboxymethyl)cellulose. The optimum pH, optimum temperature, and Km value of the enzyme were pH 5.0, 50 degrees, and 0.048%, respectively. The enzyme was strongly inactivated by Pb2+, Cu2+, and Hg2+ ions and also inhibited by Zn2+ and Fe3+ ions. The enzyme was specific for laminaran and the action pattern of the enzyme was of the endo-type. The molecular weight of the enzyme, as determined by gel filtration, was 30,000. 
23990297	20130831	J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	The pectate lyase encoded by the pecCl1 gene is an important determinant for the aggressiveness of Colletotrichum lindemuthianum.	Colletotrichum lindemuthianum is the causal agent of anthracnose in the common bean, and the genes that encode its cell-wall-degrading enzymes are crucial for the development of the disease. Pectinases are the most important group of cell wall-degrading enzymes produced by phytopathogenic fungi. The pecC1l gene, which encodes a pectate lyase in C. lindemuthianum, was isolated and characterized. Possible cis-regulatory elements and transcription factor binding sites that may be involved in the regulation of genetic expression were detected in the promoter region of the gene. pecCl1 is represented by a single copy in the genome of C. lindemuthianum, though in silico analyses of the genomes of Colletotrichum graminicola and Colletotrichum higginsianum suggest that the genome of C. lindemuthianum includes other genes that encode pectate lyases. Phylogenetic analysis detected two groups that clustered based on different members of the pectate lyase family. Analysis of the differential expression of pecCl1 during different stages of infection showed a significant increase in pecCl1 expression five days after infection, at the onset of the necrotrophic phase. The split-maker technique proved to be an efficient method for inactivation of the pecCl1 gene, which allowed functional study of a mutant with a site-specific integration. Though gene inactivation did not result in complete loss of pectate lyase activity, the symptoms of anthracnose were reduced. Analysis of pectate lyases might not only contribute to the understanding of anthracnose in the common bean but might also lead to the discovery of an additional target for controlling anthracnose. 
10849840	20000613	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Use of corncob for endoxylanase production by thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus IOC-4145.	The production of cellulase-free endoxylanase by the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus was investigated in semisolid fermentation and liquid fermentation. Different process variables were investigated in semisolid fermentation, employing corncob as the carbon source. The best results were with the following conditions: grain size = 4.5 mm, solid:liquid ratio = 1:2, and inoculum size = 20% (v/v). Corncob, xylan, and xylose were the best inducers for endoxylanase production. Additionally, organic nitrogen sources were necessary for the production of high endoxylanase activities. The crude enzyme had optimum activity at pH 6.0 and 75 degrees C, displaying a high thermostability. The apparent Km and Vmax were 1.77 mg of xylan/mL and 21.5 U/mg of protein, respectively. 
11919676	20020329	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Cloning and characterization of multiple glycosyl hydrolase genes from Trichoderma virens.	Trichoderma virens is a widely distributed soil fungus that is parasitic on other soil fungi. The mycoparasitic activity of T. virens is correlated with the production of numerous antifungal activities, including the secretion of a considerable repertoire of fungal cell wall-degrading enzymes. Here, we report the characterization of a diverse set of chitinase and glucanase genes from T. virens. In each case, full-length genomic clones were isolated and characterized, while sequencing of the corresponding cDNA clones and manual annotation provided a basis for establishing gene structure. Based on homology of the deduced amino acid sequences, we have identified three members of the 42Kd endochitinase gene family, two 33Kd exochitinases, two exochitinases with homology to N-acetylglucosaminidases, and three glucanase genes predicted to encode beta-1,3- and beta-1,6-proteins. The majority of these genes appear to encode signal peptides, suggesting an extracellular location for the corresponding proteins. Despite their overall similarity, the 42Kd class of chitinases can be subdivided, based on the presence of distinct N-terminal domains, suggesting that the proteins may have distinct cellular roles, while Northern blot analysis confirms that these genes possess distinct patterns of gene regulation. Similarly, one of the 33Kd chitinase genes is unique, because it is predicted to encode a protein C-terminus with high homology to the conserved family I cellulose-binding domain. The expression patterns of the chitinase genes were analyzed in both a wild-type strain and a strain disrupted for the major 42Kd chitinase gene of T. virens. The results of these transcript analyses, together with enzymatic assay of the extracellular proteins, suggest interdependent regulation of this important gene family in T. virens. 
16869499	20060728	Z._Naturforsch.,_C,_J._Biosci.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization and biocontrol ability of fusion chitinase in Escherichia coli carrying chitinase cDNA from Trichothecium roseum.	The antifungal mechanism of mycoparasitic fungi involves fungal cell wall degrading enzymes such as chitinases. Trichothecium roseum is an important mycoparasitic fungus with significant antifungal ability, but studies on chitinases of T. roseum were poor. Here, we report a novel chitinase cDNA isolated from T. roseum by PCR amplification based on conserved chitinase sequences. Southern blot analysis suggested that a single copy of the gene exists in the genome of T. roseum. The deduced open reading frame of 1,143 nucleotides encodes a protein of 380 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of 41.6 kDa. The fusion chitinase expressed in Escherichia coli has been purified by single-step chromatography. It has a pI of pH 5.4 and expresses a thermal stability, but is insensitive to pH in a broad pH range. According to expectation, E. coli efficiently yielded a high amount of active chitinase. Remarkably, the fusion chitinase offered high antifungal activity. 
23033684	20121005	J_Environ_Biol	D016428 	Novel application of fungal Phanerochaete sp. and xylanase for reduction in pollution load of paper mill effluent.	Four different strategies of pulping and bleaching were carried out to develop alternative mechanistic ecoenvironmental friendly approaches and generated effluent was characterised. Strategy-I included Phanerochaete sp. fungal pretreatment followed by conventional bleaching, whereas in strategy-II, fungal pretreatment was followed by enzyme xylanase aided bleaching. Strategy-III also included xylanase supplement but without prior fungal pretreatment. Chemically driven pulping and bleaching was the IV strategy. Conventional C(D)E(OP)D1D2 sequence of bleaching was used for strategy-I and IV whereas XC(D)E(OP)D1D2 sequence was applied to strategy-I and III. Strategy-II was responsible for 27.5% reduction in Kappa no. whereas the maximum (27.5%) reduction in refining energy was observed with strategy-II. Biobleaching strategies-II and III were helpful in saving 37.3 and 20.3% of elemental chlorine (Cl2) and 30.8 and 23.1% of chlorine dioxide (ClO2) respectively. In comparison to control (strategy-IV), strategy II resulted in maximum pollution load reduction of chemical oxygen demand (COD), biological oxygen demand (BOD), color and adsorbable organic halides (AOX) up to 57, 60, 30 and 43.6%, respectively. 
24031223	20130914	Braz._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of a chitinase gene from entomopathogenic fungus Verticillium lecanii.	Entomopathogenic fungus Verticillium lecanii is a promising whitefly and aphid control agent. Chitinases secreted by this insect pathogen have considerable importance in the biological control of some insect pests. An endochitinase gene Vlchit1 from the fungus was cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The Vlchit1 gene not only contains an open reading frame (ORF) which encodes a protein of 423 amino acids (aa), but also is interrupted by three short introns. Vlchit1 protein showed that the chitinase Vlchit1 has a (a/b)8 TIM barrel structure. Overexpression test and Enzymatic activity assay indicated that the Vlchit1 is a functional enzyme that can hydrolyze the chitin substrate, so the Vlchit1 gene can service as a useful gene source for genetic manipulation leading to strain improvement of entomopathogenic fungi or constructing new transgenic plants with resistance to various fungal and insects pests.  
6092916	19840801	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013487 	Disruption of regulatory gene GAL80 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: effects on carbon-controlled regulation of the galactose/melibiose pathway genes.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the transcriptional expression of the galactose-melibiose catabolic pathway genes is under the control of at least three regulatory genes, GAL4, GAL80, and GAL3. We have isolated the GAL80 gene and have studied the effect of a null mutation on the carbon-controlled regulation of the MEL1 and GAL cluster genes. The null mutation was achieved in vivo by replacing the chromosomal wild-type GAL80 allele with an in vitro-created GAL80 deletion-disruption mutation. Enzyme activities and RNA levels for the GAL cluster and MEL1 genes were constitutively expressed in the null mutant strain grown on glycerol-lactate and were higher than in the isogenic wild-type yeast strain when compared after growth on galactose. Carbon catabolite repression of the GAL cluster and MEL1 genes, which occurs at the level of transcription, is retained in the null mutant. Deletion of the GAL80 gene in a gal4 cell does not restore GAL cluster and MEL1 gene expression. The data demonstrate that (i) the GAL80 protein is a purely negative regulator, (ii) the GAL80 protein does not mediate carbon catabolite repression, and (iii) the GAL4 protein is not simply an antagonizer of GAL80-mediated repression. 
12413786	20021105	J._Biotechnol.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013485 D023361 	Integration of production and aqueous two-phase systems extraction of extracellular Fusarium solani pisi cutinase fusion proteins.	Genetic engineering was integrated with the production and purification of Fusarium solani pisi cutinases, in order to obtain the highest amount of enzyme activity units, after purification. An aqueous two-phase system (ATPS) of polyethylene glycol 3350, dipotassium phosphate and whole broth was used for the extraction of three extracellular cutinases expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The production/extraction process was evaluated regarding cutinases secretion in the medium, partition behaviour and extraction yields in the ATPS. The proteins studied were cutinase wild type and two fusion proteins of cutinase with the tryptophane-proline (WP) fusion tags, namely (WP)(2) and (WP)(4). The (WP)(4) fusion protein enabled a 300-fold increase of the cutinase partition coefficient when comparing to the wild type. However, the secretion of the fusion proteins was lower than of the wild type cutinase secretion. A batch extraction strategy was compared with a continuous extraction in a perforated rotating disc contactor (PRDC). The batch and continuous systems were loaded with as much as 60% (w/w) whole cultivation broth. The continuous extraction strategy provided a 2.5 higher separation capacity than the batch extraction strategy. Considering the integrated process, the cutinase-(WP)(2) proved to lead to the highest product activity, enabling five and six times more product activity than the wild type and the (WP)(4) fusion proteins, respectively. 
22393784	20120308	Mol._Biol._(Mosk.)	D004740 D016428 	[The mutational analysis of carbon catabolite repression in filamentous fungus Penicillium canescens].	Penicillium canescens strain F178 is a natural producer of beta-galactosidase and endo-1,4-beta-xylanase. The transcription of genes bgaS and xylA, coding for these proteins, is subject to carbon catabolite repression. The system for selective isolation of regulatory mutants in P. canescens is developed. Two strains from the mutant collection are studied in details. It is shown that both mutations can be complement by creA gene of P. canescens, encoding global regulator of carbon catabolite repression in filamentous fungi. creA(-) alleles contain frameshift mutations in C-domain of CreA. Gene xylA is derepressed in mutants at transcription level in the presence of D-glucose. A transcription of creA gene in mutants is also derepressed proving effect of autoregulation for this gene. 
16668702	19920201	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Rapid Activation of Phenylpropanoid Metabolism in Elicitor-Treated Hybrid Poplar (Populus trichocarpa Torr. & Gray x Populus deltoides Marsh) Suspension-Cultured Cells.	Elicitor induction of phenylpropanoid metabolism was investigated in suspension-cultured cells of the fast-growing poplar hybrid (Populus trichocarpa Torr. & Gray x Populus deltoides Marsh) H11-11. Treatment of cells with polygalacturonic acid lyase or two fungal elicitors resulted in rapid and transient increases in extractable l-phenylalanine ammonia lyase and 4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase enzyme activities. The substrate specificity of the inducible 4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase enzyme activity appeared to differ from substrate specificity of 4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase enzyme activity in untreated control cells. Large and transient increases in the accumulation of l-phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and 4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase mRNAs preceded the increases in enzyme activities and were detectable by 30 minutes after the start of elicitor treatment. Chalcone synthase, cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase, and coniferin beta-glucosidase enzyme activities were unaffected by the elicitors, but a large and transient increase in beta-glucosidase activity capable of hydrolyzing 4-nitrophenyl-beta-glucoside was observed. Subsequent to increases in l-phenylalanine ammonialyase and 4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase enzyme activities, cell wall-bound thioglycolic acid-extractable compounds accumulated in elicitor-treated cultures, and these cells exhibited strong staining with phloroglucinol, suggesting the accumulation of wall-bound phenolic compounds. 
1383159	19921101	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of cell wall proteins from yeast and mycelial cells of Candida albicans by labelling with biotin: comparison with other techniques.	Candida albicans ATCC 26555 blastoconidia and blastoconidia bearing germ tubes were metabolically labelled by incubating the cells with 14C-labelled protein hydrolysate and were subsequently tagged with biotin. Double-labelled (radioactive and biotinylated) cell wall proteins and glycoproteins were extracted from intact cells of both growth forms by treatment with 2-mercaptoethanol (beta ME) and with beta-glucanases (Zymolyase) after treatment with beta ME. The beta ME- and Zymolyase-extracts were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and western blotted (immunoblotted) to nitrocellulose paper. Polyacrylamide gels were stained with Coomassie blue and processed for fluorography. Western blot analysis was performed either with peroxidase conjugated-concanavalin A (ConA) or Extravidin. Blotted proteins were also reacted with polyclonal antibodies and monoclonal antibodies against mannoprotein components from mycelial cell walls of the ATCC 26555 strain. Labelling with biotin allowed identification of a complex array of cell wall protein and glycoprotein components within a very wide molecular mass range (from 650 to 13 kDa). These appeared to be genuine cell wall components. Biotinylated high-molecular-mass glycoproteins that were not stained with Coomassie blue or that appeared as poorly resolved polydisperse bands by indirect ConA-peroxidase staining of Western blots were detected as sharply defined bands following reaction with the Extravidin-peroxidase conjugate. Biotinylated molecules retained unaltered reactivities against ConA, polyclonal antibodies, and monoclonal antibodies. 
20185234	20100227	J._Hazard._Mater.	D016428 D013485 	Influence of iron and copper nanoparticle powder on the production of lignocellulose degrading enzymes in the fungus Trametes versicolor.	White rot fungi are one of the key group of microorganisms that help to enrich the soil via degradation of wood. In the current communication, influence of iron and copper nanoparticles on the production of lignocellulolytic enzymes by Trametes versicolor have been investigated. The production of enzymes in the presence of the two nanoparticles was compared to that of ferrous and cupric ions respectively. Results show that both the tested nanoparticles alter the production profile of the lignocellulolytic enzymes when compared to the control set. The production of laccase was not influenced by iron nanoparticles but was effected by copper nanoparticles within 24h of incubation. Both the nanoparticles decreased the production of beta-glucosidase, beta-xylosidase and cellobiohydrolase significantly. However, the production profile of Mn-peroxidase and remained statistically similar to that of control when the organism was incubated with iron and copper nanoparticles. The production profiles were also different when one compares the ionic form of metals and the nanoparticles, suggesting different mechanism of action of the particles on the organism. The difference in the production profile was not growth related as no significant difference was recorded for either form of iron and copper on the growth of T. versicolor. 
6796044	19810201	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of a thermostable glucoamylase from the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus.	Glucoamylase (1,4-alpha-D-glucan glucohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.3) was purified from the culture filtrates of the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus and was established to be homogeneous by a number of criteria. The enzyme was a glycoprotein with an average molecular weight of about 57 000 and a carbohydrate content of 10-12%. The enzyme hydrolysed successive glucose residues from the non-reducing ends of the starch molecule. It did not exhibit any glucosyltransferase activity. The enzyme appeared to hydrolyse maltotriose by the multi-chain mechanism. The enzyme was unable to hydrolyse 1,6-alpha-D-glucosidic linkages of isomaltose and dextran. It was optimally active at 70 degrees C. The enzyme exhibited increase in the Vmax. and decreased in Km values with increasing chain length of the substrate molecule. The enzyme was inhibited by the substrate analogue D-glucono-delta-lactone in a non-competitive manner. The enzyme inhibited remarkable resistance towards chemical and thermal denaturation. 
15271923	20040724	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013487 	Pneumocystis carinii cell wall biosynthesis kinase gene CBK1 is an environmentally responsive gene that complements cell wall defects of cbk-deficient yeast.	Pneumocystis species remain an important cause of life-threatening pneumonia in immunocompromised hosts, including those with AIDS. Responses of the organism to environmental cues both within the lung and elsewhere have been poorly defined. Herein, we report the identification of a cell wall biosynthesis kinase gene (CBK1) homologue in Pneumocystis carinii, isolated by differential display PCR, that is expressed optimally at physiological pH (7 to 8) as opposed to more acidic environments. Expression of Pneumocystis CBK1 was also induced by contact with lung epithelial cells and extracellular matrix. Translation of this gene revealed extensive homology to other fungal CBK1 kinases. Pneumocystis CBK1 expression was equal in the cyst and trophic life forms of the organisms. We further demonstrate that Pneumocystis CBK1 expressed in cbk1 Delta Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells restored defective cell wall separation during proliferation. Consistent with this, Pneumocystis CBK1 expression also stimulated transcription of the CTS1 chitinase in cbk1 Delta mutant yeast cells, an event necessary for cell wall separation. In addition, Pneumocystis CBK1 cDNA supported normal mating projection formation in response to alpha-factor in the cbk1 Delta yeast cells. Site-directed mutations of serine-303 and threonine-494, potential regulatory phosphorylation sites in Pneumocystis CBK1, abolished mating projection formation, indicating a role for these amino acid residues in CBK1 activity. These findings indicate that Pneumocystis CBK1 is an environmentally responsive gene that may function in signaling pathways necessary for cell growth and mating. 
12523968	20030114	J._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	A cellulose-binding module of the Trichoderma reesei beta-mannanase Man5A increases the mannan-hydrolysis of complex substrates.	Endo-beta-1,4-D-mannanases (beta-mannanase; EC 3.2.1.78) are endohydrolases that participate in the degradation of hemicellulose, which is closely associated with cellulose in plant cell walls. The beta-mannanase from Trichoderma reesei (Man5A) is composed of an N-terminal catalytic module and a C-terminal carbohydrate-binding module (CBM). In order to study the properties of the CBM, a construct encoding a mutant of Man5A lacking the part encoding the CBM (Man5ADeltaCBM), was expressed in T. reesei under the regulation of the Aspergillus nidulans gpdA promoter. The wild-type enzyme was expressed in the same way and both proteins were purified to electrophoretic homogeneity using ion-exchange chromatography. Both enzymes hydrolysed mannopentaose, soluble locust bean gum galactomannan and insoluble ivory nut mannan with similar rates. With a mannan/cellulose complex, however, the deletion mutant lacking the CBM showed a significant decrease in hydrolysis. Binding experiments using activity detection of Man5A and Man5ADeltaCBM suggests that the CBM binds to cellulose but not to mannan. Moreover, the binding of Man5A to cellulose was compared with that of an endoglucanase (Cel7B) from T. reesei. 
7627131	19950401	Biochem._Mol._Biol._Int.	D016428 	Polygalacturonase produced in apple tissue decayed by Botrytis cinerea.	An exo-polygalacturonase with an isoelectric point of 4.6 and an apparent molecular weight of 45 kDa was isolated from apple tissue decayed by Botrytis cinerea. This isozyme had a similar isoelectric point, optimum pH, and mode of action as an isozyme produced in liquid culture by B. cinerea. The enzyme produced in the decayed tissue was less sensitive to lower pH and less inhibited by CaCl2, MgCl2, or NaCl than the enzyme produced in culture. Such changes in the properties of the enzyme produced in infected tissue could have been essential for the pathogen's successful colonization of the host tissue. Among the cations studied, calcium was the best inhibitor of PG activity. 
16185656	20050928	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	A family 11 xylanase from the pathogen Botrytis cinerea is inhibited by plant endoxylanase inhibitors XIP-I and TAXI-I.	The phytopathogen fungus Botrytis cinerea produces various glycosidases which are secreted during plant infection. In this study, the XynBc1 cDNA that encodes a xylanase from family 11 glycoside hydrolase from B. cinerea was identified by homology-based analysis, cloned by reverse transcription RT-PCR, fully sequenced, and heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris X-33. The purified recombinant protein obtained by chelating-affinity chromatography demonstrated high catalytic activity (180+/-23 U/mg) and efficiently degraded low viscosity xylan [K(m) = 10+/-3 g L(-1), V(max) = 0.50+/-0.04 micromol xylose min(-1), and k(cat) = 136+/-11.5 s(-1) at pH 4.5 and 25 degrees C]. XynBc1 was further tested for its ability to interact with wheat XIP and TAXI type xylanase inhibitors which have been implicated in plant defence. The xylanase activity of XynBc1 produced in P. pastoris was strongly inhibited by both XIP-I and TAXI-I in a competitive manner, with a K(i) of 2.1+/-0.1 and 6.0+/-0.2 nM, respectively, whereas no inhibition was detected with TAXI-II. We also showed that XynBc1 mRNAs accumulated during early stages of plant tissue infection. 
20480204	20100519	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Evaluation of a combined brown rot decay-chemical delignification process as a pretreatment for bioethanol production from Pinus radiata wood chips.	Wood chips of Pinus radiata softwood were biotreated with the brown rot fungus (BRF) Gloeophyllum trabeum for periods from 4 and 12 weeks. Biodegradation by BRF leads to an increase in cellulose depolymerization with increasing incubation time. As a result, the intrinsic viscosity of holocellulose decreased from 1,487 cm(3)/g in control samples to 783 and 600 cm(3)/g in 4- and 12-week decayed wood chips, respectively. Wood weight and glucan losses varied from 6 to 14% and 9 to 21%, respectively. Undecayed and 4-week decayed wood chips were delignified by alkaline (NaOH solution) or organosolv (ethanol/water) processes to produced cellulosic pulps. For both process, pulp yield was 5-10% lower for decayed samples than for control pulps. However, organosolv bio-pulps presented low residual lignin amount and high glucan retention. Chemical pulps and milled wood from undecayed and 4-week decayed wood chips were pre-saccharified with cellulases for 24 h at 50 degrees C followed by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) with the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae IR2-9a at 40 degrees C for 96 h for bioethanol production. Considering glucan losses during wood decay and conversion yields from chemical pulping and SSF processes, no gains in ethanol production were obtained from the combination of BRF with alkaline delignification; however, the combination of BRF and organosolv processes resulted in a calculated production of 210 mL ethanol/kg wood or 72% of the maximum theoretically possible from that pretreatment, which was the best result obtained in the present study. 
22803678	20120719	J_Enzyme_Inhib_Med_Chem	D016428 	Characterization of nimbidiol as a potent intestinal disaccharidase and glucoamylase inhibitor present in Azadirachta indica (neem) useful for the treatment of diabetes.	Azadirachta indica, used in antidiabetic herbal drugs, was reported to contain α-glucosidase inhibitor. Bioassay guided purification characterized the inhibitor as nimbidiol (a diterpenoid), present in root and stem-bark of the tree. Nimbidiol inhibited intestinal (mammalian) maltase-glucoamylase, sucrase-isomaltase, lactase, trehalase and fungal α-glucosidases. Nimbidiol showed a mixed competitive inhibition on intestinal carbohydrases. IC50, Ki and Ki' (µM) were 1.35 ± 0.12, 0.08 ± 0.01, 0.25 ± 0.11, respectively, for maltase-glucoamylase (maltotetraose as substrate). Nimbidiol was more potent inhibitor of isomaltase (IC50 0.85 ± 0.035 µM), lactase (IC50 20 ± 1.33 µM) and trehalase (IC50 30 ± 1.75 µM) than acarbose, voglibose, salacinol, kotalanol and mangiferin. Ki and Ki' values (µM) for intestinal sucrase were 0.7 ± 0.12 and 1.44 ± 0.65, respectively. Development of nimbidiol as an antidiabetic drug appears to be promising because of broad inhibition spectrum of intestinal glucosidases and easy synthesis of the molecule.  
23959893	20130821	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Glycosylated linkers in multimodular lignocellulose-degrading enzymes dynamically bind to cellulose.	Plant cell-wall polysaccharides represent a vast source of food in nature. To depolymerize polysaccharides to soluble sugars, many organisms use multifunctional enzyme mixtures consisting of glycoside hydrolases, lytic polysaccharide mono-oxygenases, polysaccharide lyases, and carbohydrate esterases, as well as accessory, redox-active enzymes for lignin depolymerization. Many of these enzymes that degrade lignocellulose are multimodular with carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs) and catalytic domains connected by flexible, glycosylated linkers. These linkers have long been thought to simply serve as a tether between structured domains or to act in an inchworm-like fashion during catalytic action. To examine linker function, we performed molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of the Trichoderma reesei Family 6 and Family 7 cellobiohydrolases (TrCel6A and TrCel7A, respectively) bound to cellulose. During these simulations, the glycosylated linkers bind directly to cellulose, suggesting a previously unknown role in enzyme action. The prediction from the MD simulations was examined experimentally by measuring the binding affinity of the Cel7A CBM and the natively glycosylated Cel7A CBM-linker. On crystalline cellulose, the glycosylated linker enhances the binding affinity over the CBM alone by an order of magnitude. The MD simulations before and after binding of the linker also suggest that the bound linker may affect enzyme action due to significant damping in the enzyme fluctuations. Together, these results suggest that glycosylated linkers in carbohydrate-active enzymes, which are intrinsically disordered proteins in solution, aid in dynamic binding during the enzymatic deconstruction of plant cell walls.  
15227788	20040702	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Classical and molecular approaches as a powerful tool for the characterization of rumen polycentric fungi.	Ribosomal ITS1 and ITS2 fragments from 8 isolates of polycentric rumen anaerobic fungi were PCR-amplified and sequenced; the sequences obtained were aligned with published data and phylogenetic analyses were performed. Analysis of the ITS1 fragment clearly differentiated between the two polycentric genera Orpinomyces and Anaeromyces and this classification is supported by morphological observation. A multi-order phylogram based on ITS2 sequences proved that anaerobic rumen fungi are separated from aerobic chytrids, which form a well-supported monophylum with the highest possible bootstrap proportion values of 100%. Sequence analysis of ITS regions is a powerful tool for classification of anaerobic fungi but morphological description of strains is still necessary because some genera of rumen fungi display a high genetic heterogeneity. 
10564800	19991124	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	A xylanase produced by the rumen anaerobic protozoan Polyplastron multivesiculatum shows close sequence similarity to family 11 xylanases from gram-positive bacteria.	We report for the first time the cloning and characterisation of a protozoal enzyme involved in plant cell wall polysaccharide degradation. A cDNA library was constructed from the ruminal protozoan Polyplastron multivesiculatum and a stable clone expressing xylanase activity was isolated. The encoded enzyme belongs to the glycoside hydrolase family 11, and phylogenetic analysis indicates a closer relationship with catalytic domains from Gram-positive bacteria than the other fibrolytic eukaryotes from the rumen, the anaerobic fungi. 
1761061	19911205	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Primary structure and processing of the Candida tsukubaensis alpha-glucosidase. Homology with the rabbit intestinal sucrase-isomaltase complex and human lysosomal alpha-glucosidase.	The nucleotide sequence of a 4.39-kb DNA fragment encoding the alpha-glucosidase gene of Candida tsukubaensis is reported. The cloned gene contains a major open reading frame (ORF 1) which encodes the alpha-glucosidase as a single precursor polypeptide of 1070 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 119 kDa. N-terminal amino acid sequence analysis of the individual subunits of the purified enzyme, expressed in the recombinant host Saccharomyces cerevisiae, confirmed that the alpha-glucosidase precursor is proteolytically processed by removal of an N-terminal signal peptide to yield the two peptide subunits 1 and 2, of molecular masses 63-65 kDa and 50-52 kDa, respectively. Both subunits are secreted by the heterologous host S. cerevisiae in a glycosylated form. Coincident with its efficient expression in the heterologous host, the C. tsukubaensis alpha-glucosidase gene contains many of the canonical features of highly expressed S. cerevisiae genes. There is considerable sequence similarity between C. tsukubaensis alpha-glucosidase, the rabbit sucrase-isomaltase complex (proSI) and human lysosomal acid alpha-glucosidase. The cloned DNA fragment from C. tsukubaensis contains a second open reading frame (ORF 2) which has the capacity to encode a polypeptide of 170 amino acids. The function and identity of the polypeptide encoded by ORF 2 is not known. 
15033937	20040323	Glycobiology	D016428 	Functional analysis of the ALG3 gene encoding the Dol-P-Man: Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol mannosyltransferase enzyme of P. pastoris.	N-glycans are synthesized in both yeast and mammals through the ordered assembly of a lipid-linked core Glc(3)Man(9)GlcNAc(2) structure that is subsequently transferred to a nascent protein in the endoplasmic reticulum. Once folded, glycoproteins are then shuttled to the Golgi, where additional but divergent processing occurs in mammals and fungi. We cloned the Pichia pastoris homolog of the ALG3 gene, which encodes the enzyme that converts Man(5)GlcNAc(2)-Dol-PP to Man(6)GlcNAc(2)-Dol-PP. Deletion of this gene in an och1 mutant background resulted in the secretion of glycoproteins with a predicted Man(5)GlcNAc(2) structure that could be trimmed to Man(3)GlcNAc(2) by in vitro alpha-1,2-mannosidase treatment. However, several larger glycans ranging from Hex(6)GlcNAc(2) to Hex(12)GlcNAc(2) were also observed that were recalcitrant to an array of mannosidase digests. These results contrast the far simpler glycan profile found in Saccharomyces cerevisiae alg3-1 och1, indicating diverging Golgi processing in these two closely related yeasts. Finally, analysis of the P. pastoris alg3 deletion mutant in the presence and absence of the outer chain initiating Och1p alpha-1,6-mannosyltransferase activity suggests that the PpOch1p has a broader substrate specificity compared to its S. cerevisiae counterpart. 
845158	19770325	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013487 	Purification and properties of a beta-mannosidase from Aspergillus niger.	A beta-mannosidase (beta-D-mannoside mannohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.25) was purified to apparent homogeneity from the culture filtrate of the fungus, Aspergillus niger. The enzyme had an estimated molecular weight of about 120,000 and was a glycoprotein. Radioactive enzyme was prepared by growing the fungus in [14C]fructose, and this enzyme was used for the preparation of 14C-glycopeptides. The glycopeptides were purified on Sephadex G-25 and G-50 and were then hydrolyzed for sugar analysis. Two radioactive sugars were found in the glycopeptides and these were identified as mannose and glucosamine in a ratio of 2.5 or 3:1. Based on susceptibility of the enzyme to alkaline treatment and the formation of [3H]glucosaminitol in the presence of NaB3H4, the oligosaccharide is apparently attached to the protein in a GlcNAc-asparagine linkage. The beta-mannosidase had good activity on p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-mannoside but was inactive on p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-mannoside as well as on other p-nitrophenyl glycosides. It also showed good activity on the beta(1 leads to 4)-linked trisaccharide of mannose and somewhat lower activity of the corresponding disaccharide. With each of these substrates the Km was about 1 mM, whereas with the p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-mannoside the Km was about 2 mM. The beta-mannosidase also released [14C]mannose from the Man-GlcNAc-GlcNAc trisaccharide isolated from the lipid-linked oligosaccharides of aorta and released mannose from the disaccharides, Man-(beta1 leads to 4)GlcNAc and Man-(beta1 leads to 4)ManNAc. The pH optimum for the enzyme was about 3.5 to 4.0 in glycine or acetate buffer. 
19617364	20090721	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Processive endoglucanases mediate degradation of cellulose by Saccharophagus degradans.	Bacteria and fungi are thought to degrade cellulose through the activity of either a complexed or a noncomplexed cellulolytic system composed of endoglucanases and cellobiohydrolases. The marine bacterium Saccharophagus degradans 2-40 produces a multicomponent cellulolytic system that is unusual in its abundance of GH5-containing endoglucanases. Secreted enzymes of this bacterium release high levels of cellobiose from cellulosic materials. Through cloning and purification, the predicted biochemical activities of the one annotated cellobiohydrolase Cel6A and the GH5-containing endoglucanases were evaluated. Cel6A was shown to be a classic endoglucanase, but Cel5H showed significantly higher activity on several types of cellulose, was the highest expressed, and processively released cellobiose from cellulosic substrates. Cel5G, Cel5H, and Cel5J were found to be members of a separate phylogenetic clade and were all shown to be processive. The processive endoglucanases are functionally equivalent to the endoglucanases and cellobiohydrolases required for other cellulolytic systems, thus providing a cellobiohydrolase-independent mechanism for this bacterium to convert cellulose to glucose. 
6370396	19840101	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013487 	Extracellular enzyme production by Rhizopus and Mucor species on solid media.	Solid media were employed to determine the presence and absence of extracellular enzyme production by two genera of fruit-rot fungi, Rhizopus and Mucor. The results of this investigation revealed that phosphatase was released into the cultural medium by all the fungi examined; however, only R. oryzae, R. tritici, M. mucedo, and M. piriformis showed the possibility of being high producers of the enzyme. Protease, urease, ribonuclease, pectate lyase, and polygalacturonase, at varying levels of activity, were detected, in the majority of the fungi, in the cultural medium. 
11745178	20011218	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016422 D013485 	Exploitation of a library of alpha-galactosidases for the synthesis of building blocks for glycopolymers.	After screening a library of fungal alpha-galactosidases for the synthesis of functionalized alkyl alpha-D-galactopyranosides, four enzymes (isolated from Aspergillus terreus CCM55, Aspergillus commune CCM 2969, Penicillium vinaceum CCM 2384, or Penicillium brasilianum 2155) proved to be suitable for these biotransformations. The effect of different concentrations of alcohol on activity and stability of these enzymes was investigated. After optimization of the reaction conditions, three galactose derivatives (allyl, 2-nitroethyl and 2-(2',2',2'-trifluoroacetamido)-ethyl alpha-D-galactopyranoside, 1a, 3a, and 4a, respectively), suitable for subsequent chemical polymerization, were synthesized using either the "reverse hydrolysis" or the "transglycosylation" protocols. 
15871037	20050505	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Monocomponent endoglucanase treatment increases the reactivity of softwood sulphite dissolving pulp.	Softwood dissolving pulp was treated with a commercial monocomponent fungal endocellulase. The reactivity of the pulp for the production of rayon and cellulose derivatives as determined with the Fock method increased drastically with relatively low amounts of enzyme, and the yield loss and decrease of viscosity were moderate. The mechanism behind the increased reactivity is discussed. 
18943465	20081024	Phytopathology	D016428 	Identification of individual powdery mildew fungi infecting leaves and direct detection of gene expression by single conidium polymerase chain reaction.	ABSTRACT Greenhouse-grown tomato seedlings were inoculated naturally with two genera of powdery mildew conidia forming appressorial germ tubes that could not be differentiated by length alone. For direct identification, single germinated conidia were removed from leaves by means of a glass pipette linked to the manipulator of a high-fidelity digital microscope. This microscope enabled in vivo observation of the fungi without leaf decoloration or fungal staining. The isolated conidia were subjected to PCR amplification of the 5.8S rDNA and its adjacent internal transcribed spacer sequences followed by nested PCR to attain sensitivity high enough to amplify target nucleotide sequences (PCR/nested PCR). Target sequences from the conidia were completely coincident with those of the pathogen Oidium neolycopersici or Erysiphe trifolii (syn. Microsphaera trifolii), which is nonpathogenic on tomato. Using RT-PCR/nested PCR or multiplex RT-PCR/nested PCR, it was possible to amplify transcripts expressed in single conidia. Conidia at pre- and postgermination stages were removed individually from tomato leaves, and two powdery mildew genes were monitored. The results indicated that the beta-tubulin homolog TUB2-ol was expressed at pre- and postgermination stages and the cutinase homolog CUT1-ol was only expressed postgermination. Combining digital microscopic micromanipulation and two-step PCR amplification is thus useful for investigation of individual propagules on the surface of plants. 
20685216	20100806	Steroids	D016428 	Alpha-glucosidase and tyrosinase inhibitors from fungal hydroxylation of tibolone and hydroxytibolones.	Sixteen new and one known metabolites 4-20 were obtained by incubation of tibolone (1) and hydroxytibolones (2 and 3) with various fungi. Their structures were elucidated by means of a homo and heteronuclear 2D NMR and by HREI-MS techniques. The relative stereochemistry was deduced by 2D NOESY experiment. Metabolites of tibolone (1) exhibited significant inhibitory activities against alpha-glucosidase and tyrosinase enzymes. Hydroxylations at C-6, C-10, C-11, C-15 positions and alpha,beta-unsaturation at C-1/C-2, C-4/C-5 showed potent inhibitory activities against these enzymes. 
21840970	20110816	Glycobiology	D016428 	Elimination of β-mannose glycan structures in Pichia pastoris.	The methylotrophic yeast, Pichia pastoris, is an important organism used for the production of therapeutic proteins. However, the presence of fungal-like glycans, such as those containing β-mannose (Man) linkages, can elicit an immune response or bind to Man receptors, thus reducing their efficacy. Recent studies have confirmed that P. pastoris has four genes from the β-mannosyl transferase (BMT) family and that Bmt2p is responsible for the majority of β-Man linkages on glycans. While expressing recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) in a developmental glycoengineered strain devoid of BMT2 gene expression, cross-reactivity was observed with an antibody raised against host cell antigens. Treatment of the rhEPO with protein N-glycosidase F eliminated cross-reactivity, indicating that the antigen was associated with the glycan. Thorough analysis of the glycan profile of rhEPO demonstrated the presence of low amounts of α-1,2-mannosidase resistant high-Man glycoforms. In an attempt to eliminate the α-mannosidase resistant glycoforms, we used a systemic approach to genetically knock-out the remaining members of the BMT family culminating in a quadruple bmt2,4,1,3 knock-out strain. Data presented here conclude that the additive elimination of Bmt2p, Bmt3p and Bmt1p activities are required for total abolition of β-Man-associated glycans and their related antigenicity. Taken together, the elimination of β-Man containing glycoforms represents an important step forward for the Pichia production platform as a suitable system for the production of therapeutic glycoproteins. 
19140029	20090114	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Xylanase production by Penicillium canescens on soya oil cake in solid-state fermentation.	There is an increasing interest for the organic residues from various sectors of agriculture and industries over the past few decades. Their application in the field of fermentation technology has resulted in the production of bulk chemicals and value-added products such as amino acid, enzymes, mushroom, organic acids, single-cell protein, biologically active secondary metabolites, etc. (Ramachandran et al., Bioresource Technology 98:2000-2009, 2007). In this work, the production of extracellular xylanase by the fungus Penicillium canescens was investigated in solid-state fermentation using five agro-industrial substrates (soya oil cake, soya meal, wheat bran, whole wheat bran, and pulp beet). The best substrate was the soya oil cake. In order to optimize the production, the most effective cultivation conditions were investigated in Erlenmeyer flasks and in plastic bags with 5 and 100 g of soya oil cake, respectively. The initial moisture content, initial pH, and temperature of the culture affected the xylanase synthesis. The optimal fermentation medium was composed by soya oil cake crushed to 5 mm supplemented with 3% and 4% (w/w) of casein peptone and Na(2)HPO(4) x 2H(2)O. After 7 days of incubation at 30 degrees C and under 80% of initial moisture, a xylanase production level of 18,895 +/- 778 U/g (Erlenmeyer flasks) and 9,300 +/- 589 U/g (plastic bags) was reached. The partially purified enzyme recovered by ammonium sulfate fractionation was completely stable at freezing and refrigeration temperatures up to 6 months and reasonably stable at room temperature for more than 3 months. 
29039	19780701	J._Biochem.	D016428 	Studies on cellulases of a phytopathogenic fungus, Pyricularia oryzae cavara. II. Purification and properties of a beta-glucosidase.	Three components (GA, GB-1, and GB-2) of beta-glucosidase were detected in the culture filtrate of Pyricularia oryzae grown in a cellulose or cellulose derivative medium. Among them, GB-1 was induced most strongly. Purified GB-1 was homogeneous on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and showed an approximately 1,400-fold increase of specific activity over the starting material. The molecular weight was determined to be 240,000 by sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis. A similar value was also obtained by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. The enzyme contained a high proportion of acidic amino acids and mannose, and the isoelectric point of the enzyme was pH 4.15. The enzyme had a pH optimum of 5.5 and a temperature optimum at 55 degrees C. beta-Glucosidase activity was inhibited by Mn2+, Cu2+, Hg2+, p-chloromercuribenzoate, and glucono-delta-lactone. The enzyme split off glucose units one by one from the nonreducing ends of not only beta-glucooligosaccharides but also some beta-glucans, such as carboxymethylcellulose, laminaran, pustulan, and zeagallan. The affinity for cello- and laminari-oligosaccharides tended to increase in parallel with the chain length. 
1551872	19920405	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	Antifungal proteins from plants. Purification, molecular cloning, and antifungal properties of chitinases from maize seed.	We have purified two 28-kDa chitinases, designated Chitinase A (Chit A) and Chitinase B (Chit B), from maize seeds to homogeneity and isolated cDNA clones encoding these two enzymes using an oligonucleotide probe based on an amino acid sequence of a peptide derived from Chit A. Although these two enzymes share 87% homology in their amino acid sequences, which were deduced from the nucleotide sequences of the isolated cDNA clones, they are significantly different in their biochemical and in vitro antifungal activities. When tested in vitro for antifungal activity against the growth of Trichoderma reesei, Alternaria solani, and Fusarium oxysporum, Chit A showed greater antifungal activity than Chit B. The specific activity of Chit A was determined to be 3-fold higher than that of Chit B. Chit A also had a 10-fold lower binding constant (Kd) against the substrate analogue N,N',N'',N'''-tetraacetyl chitotetrose than Chit B, indicating that the two enzyme may differ in their affinities for binding to the substrate chitin. Comparison of the amino acid sequences of maize seed chitinases with those of previously published chitinases from monocot and dicot plants indicates that maize seed chitinases have diverged significantly from other chitinases. 
18248598	20080206	Plant_J.	D016428 D013485 	PYK10, a beta-glucosidase located in the endoplasmatic reticulum, is crucial for the beneficial interaction between Arabidopsis thaliana and the endophytic fungus Piriformospora indica.	Piriformospora indica, an endophyte of the Sebacinaceae family, promotes growth and seed production of many plant species, including Arabidopsis. Growth of a T-DNA insertion line in PYK10 is not promoted and the plants do not produce more seeds in the presence of P. indica, although their roots are more colonized by the fungus than wild-type roots. Overexpression of PYK10 mRNA did not affect root colonization and the response to the fungus. PYK10 codes for a root- and hypocotyl-specific beta-glucosidase/myrosinase, which is implicated to be involved in plant defences against herbivores and pathogens. Expression of PYK10 is activated by the basic helix-loop-helix domain containing transcription factor NAI1, and two Arabidopsis lines with mutations in the NAI1 gene show the same response to P. indica as the PYK10 insertion line. PYK10 transcript and PYK10 protein levels are severely reduced in a NAI1 mutant, indicating that PYK10 and not the transcription factor NAI1 is responsible for the response to the fungus. In wild-type roots, the message level for a leucine-rich repeat protein LRR1, but not for plant defensin 1.2 (PDF1.2), is upregulated in the presence of P. indica. In contrast, in lines with reduced PYK10 levels the PDF1.2, but not LRR1, message level is upregulated in the presence of the fungus. We propose that PYK10 restricts root colonization by P. indica, which results in the repression of defence responses and the upregulation of responses leading to a mutualistic interaction between the two symbiotic partners. 
12137913	20020726	Life_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of a novel peroxidase from French bean legumes and first demonstration of antifungal activity of a non-milk peroxidase.	A novel antifungal protein with its N-terminal sequence bearing similarity to the C-terminal sequences of peroxidases was isolated from French bean legumes. The protein, which possessed a molecular weight of 37 kDa, was adsorbed on Affi-gel blue gel and CM-Sepharose. The protein exhibited peroxidase activity with a Km of 58 microM and a Vmax of 3.36 U/nmol. Optimal peroxidase activity was found at 22 degrees C and pH 4. It exerted antifungal activity against a variety of fungal species including Coprinus comatus, Mycosphaerella arachidicola, Fusarium oxysporum and Botrytis cinerea. It inhibited the activities of alpha-glucosidase and beta-glucosidase but was without any inhibitory effect on HIV-1 reverse transcriptase. 
11167135	20010213	Int._J._Biochem._Cell_Biol.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of a cellulase from the ruminal fungus Orpinomyces joyonii cloned in Escherichia coli.	A cellulase from the ruminal fungus Orpinomyces joyonii cloned in Escherichia coli was purified 88-fold by chromatography on High Q and hydroxyapatite. N-terminal amino acid sequence analyses confirmed that the cellulase represented the product of the cellulase gene Cel B2. The purified enzyme possessed high activity toward barley beta-glucan, lichenan, carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC), xylan, but not toward laminarin and pachyman. In addition, the cloned enzyme was able to hydrolyze p-nitrophenyl (PNP)-cellobioside, PNP-cellotrioside, PNP-cellotetraoside, PNP-cellopentaoside, but not PNP-glucopyranoside. The specific activity of the cloned enzyme on barley beta-glucan was 297 units/mg protein. The purified enzyme appeared as a single band in SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the molecular mass of this enzyme (58000) was consistent with the value (56463) calculated from the DNA sequence. The optimal pH of the enzyme was 5.5, and the enzyme was stable between pH 5.0 and pH 7.5. The enzyme had a temperature optimum at 40 degrees C. The K(m) values estimated for barley beta-glucan and CMC were 0.32 and 0.50 mg/ml, respectively. 
18846399	20081011	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013485 	Three-phase partitioning of alpha-galactosidase from fermented media of Aspergillus oryzae and comparison with conventional purification techniques.	Simple, attractive and versatile technique, three-phase partitioning (TPP) was used to purify alpha-galactosidase from fermented media of Aspergillus oryzae. The various conditions required for attaining efficient purification of the alpha-galactosidase fractions were optimized. The addition of n-butanol, t-butanol, and isopropanol in the presence of ammonium sulfate pushes the protein out of the solution to form an interfacial precipitate layer between the lower aqueous and upper organic layers. The single step of three-phase partitioning, by saturating final concentration of ammonium sulfate (60%) with 1:1 t-butanol, gave activity recovery of 92% with 12-fold purification at second phase of TPP. The final purified enzyme after TPP showed considerable purification on SDS-PAGE with a molecular weight of 64 kDa. The enzyme after TPP showed improved activity in organic solvents. Results are compared with conventional established processes for the purification of alpha-galactosidase produced by Aspergillus oryzae and overall the proposed TPP technique resulted in 70% reduction of purification cost compared to conventional chromatographic protocols. 
18982415	20081105	Biodegradation	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Application of solid waste from anaerobic digestion of poultry litter in Agrocybe aegerita cultivation: mushroom production, lignocellulolytic enzymes activity and substrate utilization.	The degradation and utilization of solid waste (SW) from anaerobic digestion of poultry litter by Agrocybe aegerita was evaluated through mushroom production, loss of organic matter (LOM), lignocellulolytic enzymes activity, lignocellulose degradation and mushroom nutrients content. Among the substrate combinations (SCs) tested, substrates composed of 10-20% SW, 70-80% wheat straw and 10% millet was found to produce the highest mushroom yield (770.5 and 642.9 g per 1.5 kg of substrate). LOM in all SCs tested varied between 8.8 and 48.2%. A. aegerita appears to degrade macromolecule components (0.6-21.8% lignin, 33.1-55.2% cellulose and 14-53.9% hemicellulose) during cultivation on the different SCs. Among the seven extracellular enzymes monitored, laccase, peroxidase and CMCase activities were higher before fruiting; while xylanase showed higher activities after fruiting. A source of carbohydrates (e.g., millet) in the substrate is needed in order to obtain yield and biological efficiency comparable to other commercially cultivated exotic mushrooms. 
17082997	20061104	Microb._Ecol.	D016428 D013486 	Periphytic photosynthetic stimulation of extracellular enzyme activity in aquatic microbial communities associated with decaying typha litter.	We examined the effect of light on extracellular enzyme activities of periphytic/endogenous microbial assemblages associated with decomposing litter of an emergent macrophyte Typha angustifolia within a small inland wetland in southeastern Michigan. Standing-dead Typha leaf litter was collected, placed into floating wire mesh litter baskets, and submerged in a wetland pool. Enzyme saturation assays were conducted on three occasions following litter submergence (days 9, 28, and 44) to generate saturation curves for the individual enzymes tested and to examine potential differences in enzyme saturation kinetics during microbial colonization and development. Experimental light manipulations were conducted on two occasions during microbial development (days 10 and 29). Short-term (30 min) light exposure significantly increased extracellular beta-glucosidase activity of litter-associated microbial communities. Activities of beta-xylosidase and leucine-aminopeptidase were not stimulated, and stimulation of phosphatase activity was variable. The exact mechanism for increased enzyme activity remains unknown, but it may have been increased pH arising from periphytic algal photosynthesis. These results suggest that extracellular enzyme activity in microbial communities colonizing natural organic substrata may be influenced by light/photosynthesis, as has previously been demonstrated for periphyton communities grown on artificial, inert substrata. Thus, light/photosynthetic mediated stimulation of extracellular enzyme activities may be a common occurrence in microbial communities associated with natural decaying plant litter in wetlands and might engender diurnal patterns in other microbial decay processes (e.g., production, organic matter decomposition, and mineralization). 
12582132	20030213	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptional regulation of xyn2 in Hypocrea jecorina.	The xylanase system of the filamentous fungus Hypocrea jecorina (Trichoderma reesei) consists of two specific xylanases, Xyn1 and Xyn2, which are simultaneously expressed during growth on xylan but respond differentially to low-molecular-weight inducers. Using in vivo footprinting analysis of xylan-induced and noninduced mycelia, we detected two adjacent nucleotide sequences (5'-AGAA-3' on the noncoding strand and 5'-GGGTAAATTGG-3', referred to as the xylanase-activating element [XAE], on the coding strand, respectively) to bind proteins. Among these, binding to the AGAA-box is only observed under noninduced conditions, whereas binding to XAE is constitutive. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay with heterologously expressed components of the H. jecorina Hap2/3/5 protein complex and the cellulase regulator Ace2 suggests that these two transactivators form the protein complex binding to XAE. H. jecorina transformants, containing correspondingly mutated versions of the xyn2 promoter fused to the Aspergillus niger goxA gene as a reporter, revealed that the elimination of protein binding to the AGAA-box resulted in a threefold increase in both basal and induced transcription, whereas elimination of Ace2 binding to its target in XAE completely eliminated transcription under both conditions. Destruction of the CCAAT-box by insertion of a point mutation prevents binding of the Hap2/3/5 complex in vitro and results in a slight increase in both basal and induced transcription. These data support a model of xyn2 regulation based on the interplay of Hap2/3/5, Ace2 and the AGAA-box binding repressor. 
15254625	20040716	Org._Biomol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic synthesis of complex glycosaminotrioses and study of their molecular recognition by hevein domains.	Hevein, a protein found in Hevea brasiliensis, has a CRD domain, which is known to bind chitin and GlcNAc-containing oligosaccharides. By using NMR and molecular modeling as major tools we have demonstrated that trisaccharides containing GalNAc and ManNAc residues are also recognized by hevein domains. Thus far unknown trisaccharides GlcNAcbeta(1-->4)GlcNAcbeta(1-->4)ManNAc (1) and GalNAcbeta(1-->4)GlcNAcbeta(1-->4)ManNAc (2) were synthesized with the use of beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase from Aspergillus oryzae. This method is based on the rather unique phenomenon that some fungal beta-N-acetylhexosaminidases cannot hydrolyze disaccharide GlcNAcbeta(1-->4)ManNAc (5) contrary to chitobiose GlcNAcbeta(1-->4)GlcNAc (4) that is cleaved and, therefore, cannot be used as an acceptor for further transglycosylation. Both trisaccharides 1 and 2 were prepared by transglycosylation from disaccharidic acceptor in good yields ranging from 35% to 40%. Our observations strongly indicate that the present nature of the modifications of chitotriose (GlcNAcbeta(1-->lcNAcbeta(1-->4)GlcNAc, 3) at either the non-reducing end (GalNAc instead of GlcNAc) or at the reducing end (ManNAc instead of GlcNAc) do not modify the mode of binding of the trisaccharide to hevein. The association constant values indicate that chitotriose (3) binding is better than that of 1 and 2, and that the binding of (with ManNAc at the reducing end) is favored with respect to that of 2 (with ManNAc at the reducing end with a non-reducing GalNAc moiety). 
22535444	20120427	Med._Microbiol._Immunol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Chitinases in Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.	Pneumocystis pneumonia remains an important complication of immune suppression. The cell wall of Pneumocystis has been demonstrated to potently stimulate host inflammatory responses, with most studies focusing on β-glucan components of the Pneumocystis cell wall. In the current study, we have elaborated the potential role of chitins and chitinases in Pneumocystis pneumonia. We demonstrated differential host mammalian chitinase expression during Pneumocystis pneumonia. We further characterized a chitin synthase gene in Pneumocystis carinii termed Pcchs5, a gene with considerable homolog to the fungal chitin biosynthesis protein Chs5. We also observed the impact of chitinase digestion on Pneumocystis-induced host inflammatory responses by measuring TNFα release and mammalian chitinase expression by cultured lung epithelial and macrophage cells stimulated with Pneumocystis cell wall isolates in the presence and absence of exogenous chitinase digestion. These findings provide evidence supporting a chitin biosynthetic pathway in Pneumocystis organisms and that chitinases modulate inflammatory responses in lung cells. We further demonstrate lung expression of chitinase molecules during Pneumocystis pneumonia. 
16244214	20051026	Arch._Dis._Child._Fetal_Neonatal_Ed.	D016428 	Chitotriosidase in neonates with fungal and bacterial infections.	Increased plasma and/or urine chitotriosidase activity was found in neonates with fungal infection changing in parallel with their clinical condition. Increased levels were also found in neonates with bacterial infection. Chitotriosidase activity increase is not a response specific to fungi, but serial assays could monitor the course of neonatal fungal infection. 
12482412	20021217	Blood_Cells_Mol._Dis.	D016428 	Chitotriosidase deficiency in survivors of Candida sepsis.	The existence of chitotriosidase, a human chitinolytic enzyme, hydrolyzes artificial chitotrioside substrates, but its specific function in humans is unknown. The homologous chitinases have an anti-fungal action in plants. In patients with Gaucher disease, chitotriosidase activity is markedly elevated and is a marker for response to specific treatment. In all populations, 6% of individuals are enzyme deficient but completely healthy. It was hypothesized that chitotriosidase deficient persons may be more vulnerable to fungal infections. Thus, the objective of the study was to ascertain the prevalence of homozygosity for the mutation of chitotriosidase among survivors of Candida sepsis. The prevalence of homozygosity among survivors was similar to that in the normal population. Although the cohort is the largest of its kind, since only survivors were tested, further studies should include all patients with Candida sepsis for comparison of survival rates among deficient versus sufficient individuals, and thereby elucidate if this enzyme has an anti-fungal function in man. Several theories are considered to explain the results. 
18804353	20080923	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Expression analysis of the exo-beta-1,3-glucanase from the mycoparasitic fungus Trichoderma asperellum.	The regulation of the gene encoding the extracellular exo-beta-1,3-glucanase (tag83) produced by the mycoparasite Trichoderma asperellum was studied. Enzyme activity was detected in all carbon sources, but the highest levels were found when starch and purified cell walls from Rhizoctonia solani were used. These results are supported by the appearance of one strong band with enzyme activity in non-denaturing PAGE. Experiments using RT-PCR showed that exo-beta-1,3-glucanase induction in T. asperellum occurred at the transcriptional level. We used RT-PCR and real-time PCR analysis to examine the expression of tag83 gene during in vivo assay of T. asperellum against R. solani. We showed that the expression of tag83 is significantly increased by the presence of R. solani. 
16854182	20060721	Rev_Iberoam_Micol	D016428 D013485 	Detection of Candida dubliniensis in patients with candidiasis in Caracas, Venezuela.	Candida species are responsible for 80% of all nosocomial fungal infections. In 1995 a new yeast species was described, Candida dubliniensis which shares with Candida albicans characteristics. We have studied 109 yeast isolates identified as C. albicans to investigate the presence of C. dubliniensis by microbiological studies and PCR using DUBR/DUBF primers. Positive results using microbiological tools were between 90 and 98%. Two morphological and physiological of the 80 DNA examined samples (2.5%) showed a PCR product of 288 bp which allow the identification of C. dubliniensis. This is the first report in Venezuela of identification of this species using a PCR approach. 
16713243	20060523	Curr._Opin._Biotechnol.	D016428 D052061 D016454 	Engineering yeasts for xylose metabolism.	Technologies for the production of alternative fuels are receiving increased attention owing to concerns over the rising cost of petrol and global warming. One such technology under development is the use of yeasts for the commercial fermentation of xylose to ethanol. Several approaches have been employed to engineer xylose metabolism. These involve modeling, flux analysis, and expression analysis followed by the targeted deletion or altered expression of key genes. Expression analysis is increasingly being used to target rate-limiting steps. Quantitative metabolic models have also proved extremely useful: they can be calculated from stoichiometric balances or inferred from the labeling of intermediate metabolites. The recent determination of the genome sequence for P. stipitis is important, as its genome characteristics and regulatory patterns could serve as guides for further development in this natural xylose-fermenting yeast or in engineered Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Lastly, strain selection through mutagenesis, adaptive evolution or from nature can also be employed to further improve activity. 
16150549	20050910	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Glycosylation of internal sugar residues of oligosaccharides catalyzed by alpha-galactosidase from Aspergillus fumigatus.	Purified alpha-galactosidase from a thermotolerant fungus Aspergillus fumigatus IMI 385708 was found to catalyze efficiently transgalactosylation reactions using 4-nitrophenyl alpha-D-galactopyranoside as glycosyl donor. Self-transfer reactions with this substrate afforded in low yields several 4-nitrophenyl galactobiosides. Monosaccharides also served as poor glycosyl acceptors. Disaccharides and particularly higher oligosaccharides of alpha-1,4-gluco- (maltooligosaccharides), beta-1,4-gluco- (cellooligosaccharides) and beta-1,4-manno-series were efficiently galactosylated, the latter being the best acceptors that were also doubly galactosylated. With mannooligosaccharides product yields increased with polymerization degree of acceptors reaching 50% at DP of 4-6. Longer oligosaccharide acceptors were galactosylated at internal sugar residues. All galactosyl residues were transferred exclusively to the primary hydroxyl group(s) at C-6 position of oligosaccharide acceptors. This is in accordance with the inability of the enzyme to transfer galactose to beta-1,4-linked xylooligosaccharides. This is the first report of glycosyl transfer reaction to internal sugar residues of oligosaccharides catalyzed by a glycosidase. High affinity to oligosaccharide acceptors also opens a way toward enzymatic glycosylation of polysaccharides, thus modulating their physico-chemical and biological properties. 
8918452	19961101	EMBO_J.	D016428 D013485 	The PMT gene family: protein O-glycosylation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is vital.	The transfer of mannose to seryl and threonyl residues of secretory proteins is catalyzed by a family of protein mannosyltransferases coded for by seven genes (PMT1-7). Mannose dolichylphosphate is the sugar donor of the reaction, which is localized at the endoplasmic reticulum. By gene disruption and crosses all single, double and triple mutants of genes PMT1-4 were constructed. Two of the double and three of the triple mutants were not able to grow under normal conditions; three of these mutants could grow, however, when osmotically stabilized. The various mutants were extensively characterized concerning growth, morphology and their sensitivity to killer toxin K1, caffeine and calcofluor white. O-Mannosylation of gp115/Gas1p was affected only in pmt4 mutants, whereas glycosylation of chitinase was mainly affected in pmt1 and pmt2 mutants. The results show that protein O-glycosylation is essential for cell wall rigidity and cell integrity and that this protein modification, therefore, is vital for Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
16487328	20060221	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Cell surface display of Chi92 on Escherichia coli using ice nucleation protein for improved catalytic and antifungal activity.	The gene encoding chitinase 92 (Chi92) from Aeromonas hydrophila JP10 has been displayed on the cell surface of Escherichia coli using the N-terminal region of ice nucleation proteins (INPN) as an anchoring motif. Immunofluorescence microscopy confirmed that Chi92 was anchored on the cell surface. Western blot analysis further identified the synthesis of INP derivatives containing the N-terminal domain INPN-Chi92 fusion protein of the expected size (112 kDa). Whole cell enzyme assay indicated that the displayed Chi92 showed enhanced catalytic activity toward colloidal chitin. In addition, the Chi92-displayed cells exhibited inhibitory effects on the mycelial growth of phytopathogenic fungi, including Fusarium decemcellulare, Sclerotium rolfsii, Rhizoctonia solani kuhn, and Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis. This study suggested that the INP-based display systems can be used to express a large protein (90 kDa Chi92) on the cell surface of E. coli without growth inhibition. In addition, the display of chitinase on the cell surface may provide an attractive method for the development of biocontrol agents against phytopathogenic fungi. 
11678283	20011027	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Purification and partial amino acid sequencing of a mycorrhiza-related chitinase isoform from Glomus mosseae-inoculated roots of Pisum sativum L.	Colonization of Pisum sativum L. cv. Frisson roots with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae leads to the induction of four acidic symbiosis-related chitinase (SR-chi) isoforms (EC 3.2.1.14). These isoforms were characterized as 30-kDa proteins with isoelectric points ranging between 5.2 and 5.85. One of these SR-chis was purified by affinity and anion-exchange chromatographies, and isoelectric focusing electrophoresis. The sequences of four internal peptides were obtained. They showed high homology to a class-I chitinase isoform from pea shoots. Parts of the conserved regions of class-I chitinases were found in this SR-chi. This result strongly supports the argument that this SR-chi isoform is of plant origin. The functional role of the SR-chis in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis is discussed. 
12775711	20030531	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Structure and ligand-induced conformational change of the 39-kDa glycoprotein from human articular chondrocytes.	The 39-kDa human cartilage glycoprotein (HCGP39), a member of a novel family of chitinase-like lectins (Chilectins), is overexpressed in articular chondrocytes and certain cancers. Proposed functions of this protein include a role in connective tissue remodeling and defense against pathogens. Similar to other Chi-lectins, HCGP39 promotes the growth of connective tissue cells. The ability of HCGP39 to activate cytoplasmic signaling pathways suggests the presence of a ligand for this protein at the cell surface. There is currently no information regarding the identity of any physiological or pathological ligands of the Chi-lectins or the nature of the protein-ligand interaction. Here, we show that HCGP39 is able to bind chitooligosaccharides with micromolar affinity. Crystal structures of the native protein and a complex with GlcNAc8 show that the ligand is bound in identical fashion to family 18 chitinases. However, unlike the chitinases, binding of the oligosaccharide ligand to HCGP39 induces a large conformational change. Thus, HCGP39 could be a lectin that binds chitin-like oligosaccharide ligands and possibly plays a role in innate responses to chitinous pathogens, such as fungi and nematodes. 
6965247	19820101	Rev._Argent._Microbiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Protein enrichment of sugar beet bagasse for fermentation].	Leached beet pulp is a plentiful waste in the sugar beet industry in Chile, reaching 100.000 metric tons per year on a dry basis. It represents an interesting substrate for protein upgrading through fermentation by cellulolytic organisms, because of the high content of cellulose and hemicellulose, with small amounts of protein and lignin (Table 1). The fermentation of leached beet pulp by the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma reesei QM 9414 was studied under carbon limitation, with the celluloses as the only carbon and energy source. Nitrogen was supplied as ammonium sulphate and the medium was supplemented with other mineral salts as required for growth. Results on the kinetics of cellulose and hemicellulose degradation, level of reducing sugars in the medium, mycelial growth and production of cellulolytic enzymes are presented. Mycelial growth and related parameters were evaluated by an indirect method, based on nitrogen balances during fermentation. A yield of 0.26 g. of dry cell/g. of cellulosic substrate consumed and productivity of 0.095 g. of dry cell per liter per hour were obtained and compared with reported results on similar systems. After 40 to 45 hours of fermentation, approximately 80% of the cellulose and 45% of the hemicellulose were degraded (Fig. 2). Both, exoglucanase and endoglucanase, were induced; endoglucanase was growth associated, while exoglucanase appeared later in the growth phase, reaching its maximum activity in the stationary phase (Fig. 3). The product obtained was 30% protein and only 40 to 45% residual fiber, mostly hemicellulose. Mild acid hydrolysis has been successful in degrading hemicellulose but not cellulose, in the leached beet pulp.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
22412805	20120314	Mar_Drugs	D016428 D013485 	Four eremophilane sesquiterpenes from the mangrove endophytic fungus Xylaria sp. BL321.	Three new eremophilane sesquiterpenes (1-3) were isolated from the mangrove endophytic fungus Xylaria sp. BL321 together with 07H239-A (4), a known analogue of the new compounds. The structures of these compounds were elucidated by analysis of their MS, 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopic data. Compound 4 showed activation activity on α-glucosidase at 0.15 μM (146%), and then, 4 gradually produced inhibitory activity on α-glucosidase with increasing concentration, and the IC₅₀ value is 6.54 μM. 
10586500	19991210	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Heterologous expression and characterization of endoglucanase I (EGI) from Trichoderma viride HK-75.	Endoglucanase I (EGI) secreted from Trichoderma viride HK-75 has a unique transglycosylation activity. The genomic and cDNA clones encoding EGI (egl1) of T. viride HK-75 were isolated and characterized. The coding region of egl1, composed of 1392 bp, was found to encode a polypeptide of 464 amino acids that has extensive similarity (93.8%) with EGI of T. reesei. Expression of the egl1 gene in E. coli as a fusion protein (with N-terminal thioredoxin and C-terminal histidine tag) led to a large production of a nonglycosylated protein of 62.5 kDa. However, it formed an insoluble inclusion body. Upon denaturation with 8 M urea followed by dialysis and successive purification, the enzymatically active recombinant EGI (rEGI) was obtained at a level as high as 18.3 mg/l of 1,000 ml of culture. The rEGI had 67.8% activity for carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC), compared to native EGI (nEGI). The optimum pH and optimum temperature of rEGI were lower than those of nEGI by 0.5 and 5 degrees C, respectively. The rEGI also had narrower CMCase ranges than nEGI in pH and temperature stabilities. However, the catalytic and transglycosylation abilities against cellotriose of rEGI were comparable to those of nEGI. These results suggest that the glycosylation is important for the stabilities of EGI but not critical for the essential enzymatic capacity. 
22085593	20111117	Biotechnol._Adv.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Development of yeast cell factories for consolidated bioprocessing of lignocellulose to bioethanol through cell surface engineering.	To build an energy and material secure future, a next generation of renewable fuels produced from lignocellulosic biomass is required. Although lignocellulosic biomass, which represents an abundant, inexpensive and renewable source for bioethanol production, is of great interest as a feedstock, the complicated ethanol production processes involved make the cost of producing bioethanol from it higher compared to corn starch and cane juice. Therefore, consolidated bioprocessing (CBP), which combines enzyme production, saccharification and fermentation in a single step, has gained increased recognition as a potential bioethanol production system. CBP requires a highly engineered microorganism developed for several different process-specific characteristics. The dominant strategy for engineering a CBP biocatalyst is to express multiple components of a cellulolytic system from either fungi or bacteria in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The development of recombinant yeast strains displaying cellulases and hemicellulases on the cell surface represents significant progress toward realization of CBP. Regardless of the process used for biomass hydrolysis, CBP-enabling microorganisms encounter a variety of toxic compounds produced during biomass pretreatment that inhibit microbial growth and ethanol yield. Systems biology approaches including disruptome screening, transcriptomics, and metabolomics have been recently exploited to gain insight into the molecular and genetic traits involved in tolerance and adaptation to the fermentation inhibitors. In this review, we focus on recent advances in development of yeast strains with both the ability to directly convert lignocellulosic material to ethanol and tolerance in the harsh environments containing toxic compounds in the presence of ethanol. 
15654887	20050119	FEBS_J.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of an alpha-1,3-glucanase during mycoparasitic interaction of Trichoderma asperellum.	Trichoderma species have been investigated as biological control agents for over 70 years owing to their ability to antagonize plant pathogenic fungi. Mycoparasitism, one of the main mechanisms involved in the antagonistic activity of Trichoderma strains, depends on the secretion of complex mixtures of hydrolytic enzymes able to degrade the host cell wall. The antifungal activity of an alpha-1,3-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.59, enzymes able to degrade alpha-1,3-glucans and also named mutanases) has been described in T. harzianum and its role in mycoparasitic processes has been suggested. In this study, we report on the purification, characterization and cloning of an exo-alpha-1,3-glucanase, namely AGN13.2, from the antagonistic fungus T. asperellum T32. Expression at the transcription level in confrontation assays against the strawberry pathogen Botrytis cinerea strongly supports the role of AGN13.2 during the antagonistic action of T. asperellum. 
24190499	20131106	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Analysis of cellodextrin transporters from Neurospora crassa in Saccharomyces cerevisiae for cellobiose fermentation.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae can be engineered to ferment cellodextrins produced by cellulases as a product of cellulose hydrolysis. Direct fermentation of cellodextrins instead of glucose is advantageous because glucose inhibits cellulase activity and represses the fermentation of non-glucose sugars present in cellulosic hydrolyzates. To facilitate cellodextrin utilization by S. cerevisiae, a fungal cellodextrin-utilizing pathway from Neurospora crassa consisting of a cellodextrin transporter and a cellodextrin hydrolase has been introduced into S. cerevisiae. Two cellodextrin transporters (CDT-1 and CDT-2) were previously identified in N. crassa, but their kinetic properties and efficiency for cellobiose fermentation have not been studied in detail. In this study, CDT-1 and CDT-2, which are hypothesized to transport cellodextrin with distinct mechanisms, were introduced into S. cerevisiae along with an intracellular β-glucosidase (GH1-1). Cellobiose transport assays with the resulting strains indicated that CDT-1 is a proton symporter while CDT-2 is a simple facilitator. A strain expressing CDT-1 and GH1-1 (DCDT-1G) showed faster cellobiose fermentation than the strain expressing CDT-2 and GH1-1 (DCDT-2G) under various culture conditions with different medium compositions and aeration levels. While CDT-2 is expected to have energetic benefits, the expression levels and kinetic properties of CDT-1 in S. cerevisiae appears to be optimum for cellobiose fermentation. These results suggest CDT-1 is a more effective cellobiose transporter than CDT-2 for engineering S. cerevisiae to ferment cellobiose.  
20970816	20101026	Phytochemistry	D016428 D013486 	Interaction of Nectarin 4 with a fungal protein triggers a microbial surveillance and defense mechanism in nectar.	Understanding the biochemical mechanisms by which plants respond to microbial infection is a fundamental goal of plant science. Extracellular dermal glycoproteins (EDGPs) are widely expressed in plant tissues and have been implicated in plant defense responses. Although EDGPs are known to interact with fungal proteins, the downstream effects of these interactions are poorly understood. To gain insight into these phenomena, we used tobacco floral nectar as a model system to identify a mechanism by which the EDGP known as Nectarin IV (NEC4) functions as pathogen surveillance molecule. Our data demonstrates that the interaction of NEC4 with a fungal endoglucanase (XEG) promotes the catalytic activity of Nectarin V (NEC5), which catalyzes the conversion of glucose and molecular oxygen to gluconic acid and H(2)O(2). Significantly enhanced NEC5 activity was observed when XEG was added to nectar or nectarin solutions that contain NEC4. This response was also observed when the purified NEC4:XEG complex was added to NEC4-depleted nectarin solutions, which did not respond to XEG alone. These results indicate that formation of the NEC4:XEG complex is a key step leading to induction of NEC5 activity in floral nectar, resulting in an increase in concentrations of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which are known to inhibit microbial growth directly and activate signal transduction pathways that induce innate immunity responses in the plant. 
24286790	20131130	Immunobiology	D016428 D013485 	Induction of innate immunity by Aspergillus fumigatus cell wall polysaccharides is enhanced by the composite presentation of chitin and beta-glucan.	Chitin and β-glucan are conserved throughout evolution in the fungal cell wall and are the most common polysaccharides in fungal species. Together, these two polysaccharides form a structural scaffold that is essential for the survival of the fungus. In the present study, we demonstrated that Aspergillus fumigatus alkali-insoluble cell wall fragments (AIF), composed of chitin linked covalently to β-glucan, induced enhanced immune responses when compared with individual cell wall polysaccharides. Intranasal administration of AIF induced eosinophil and neutrophil recruitment, chitinase activity, TNF-α and TSLP production in mice lungs. Selective destruction of chitin or β-glucan from AIF significantly reduced eosinophil and neutrophil recruitment as well as chitinase activity and cytokine expression by macrophages, indicating the synergistic effect of the cell wall polysaccharides when presented together as a composite PAMP. We also showed that these cell wall polysaccharides induced chitin-specific IgM in mouse serum. Our in vivo and in vitro data indicate that chitin and β-glucan play important roles in activating innate immunity when presented as composite cell wall PAMPs.  
18943277	20081024	Phytopathology	D016428 	Worldwide Phylogeography of the Citrus Brown Spot Pathogen, Alternaria alternata.	ABSTRACT Sixty-five isolates of Alternaria alternata were sampled from brown spot lesions on tangerines and mandarins (Citrus reticulata) and tangerine x grapefruit (C. reticulata x C. paradisi) hybrids in the United States, Colombia, Australia, Turkey, South Africa, and Israel to investigate the worldwide phylogeography of the fungus. Genetic variation was scored at 15 putative random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) loci and 465 bp of an endo-polygalacturonase (endo-PG) gene was sequenced for each isolate. Cluster analysis of RAPD genotypes revealed significant differentiation between United State and Colombia isolates and Turkey, South Africa, Israel, and Australia isolates. Sequencing of endo-PG revealed 21 variable sites when the outgroup A. gaisen (AK-toxin-producing pathogen of Japanese pear) was included and 13 variable sites among the sampled isolates. Nucleotide substitutions at 10 of 13 variable sites represented silent mutations when endo-PG was translated in frame. Eight distinct endo-PG haplotypes were found among the sampled isolates and estimation of a phylogeny with endo-PG sequence data revealed three clades, each with strong bootstrap support. The most basal clade (clade 1) was inferred based on its similarity to the outgroup A. gaisen and consisted exclusively of pathogenic isolates from the United States and Colombia. Clade 2 consisted of pathogenic and nonpathogenic isolates from the United States, Australia, South Africa, and Israel and clade 3 contained pathogenic and nonpathogenic isolates from Australia, South Africa, Israel, and Turkey. Quantitative estimates of virulence (disease incidence) were obtained for isolates from the United States, Colombia, South Africa, Israel, and Turkey by spray inoculating detached citrus leaves and counting the number of lesions 24 h after inoculation. Large differences in virulence were detected among isolates within each location and isolates from the United States were significantly more virulent than isolates from other locations. Several isolates from Colombia, South Africa, Israel, and Turkey had low virulence and 8% of all isolates were nonpathogenic. All but one of the nonpathogenic isolates were found in clade 2 of the endo-PG phylogeny, which also included the most highly virulent isolates sampled. 
2515117	19891214	Gene	D016428 	Synthesis and secretion of hepatitis B middle surface antigen by the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha.	The methylotrophic yeast, Hansenula polymorpha, has been developed as a host system for the synthesis of heterologous proteins. The middle surface antigen of hepatitis B virus (preS2-HBsAg) has been synthesized under the control of a methanol-regulated promoter derived from the methanol oxidase-encoding gene. The synthesized preS2-HBsAg protein was found to be secreted outside the cell membrane into the periplasm and further excreted into the culture medium following permeabilization of the cell wall with beta-1,3-glucanase (beta Glu). Cell cultures treated with beta Glu were able to continuously synthesize and secrete 22-nm particles of preS2-HBsAg into the medium for several days. The overall yield of antigen from treated cultures was found to be over threefold greater than that of untreated controls. The observation that complex supramolecular structures, such as the 22-nm particles of preS2-HBsAg, can be secreted by H. polymorpha and released into the medium, suggests the potential for these yeasts to be an alternative secretory host. 
22711122	20120620	Methods_Mol._Biol.	D016428 	Metabolic engineering of Mucor circinelloides for zeaxanthin production.	Mucor circinelloides is a β-carotene producing zygomycete amenable to metabolic engineering using molecular tools. The crtS gene of the heterobasidiomycetous yeast Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous encodes the enzymatic activities β-carotene hydroxylase and ketolase, allowing this yeast to produce the xanthophyll called astaxanthin. Here we describe the fermentation of X. dendrorhous in astaxanthin producing conditions to purify mRNA for the cloning of the cDNA from the crtS gene by RT-PCR. Further construction of an expression plasmid and transformation of M. circinelloides protoplasts allow the heterologous expression of the crtS cDNA in M. circinelloides to obtain β-cryptoxanthin and zeaxanthin overproducing transformants. These two xanthophylls are hydroxylated compounds from β-carotene. These results show that the crtS gene is involved in the conversion of β-carotene into xanthophylls, being potentially useful to engineer carotenoid pathways. 
23617724	20130427	BMC_Genomics	D016428 D013485 	Comparative analysis of fungal genomes reveals different plant cell wall degrading capacity in fungi.	Fungi produce a variety of carbohydrate activity enzymes (CAZymes) for the degradation of plant polysaccharide materials to facilitate infection and/or gain nutrition. Identifying and comparing CAZymes from fungi with different nutritional modes or infection mechanisms may provide information for better understanding of their life styles and infection models. To date, over hundreds of fungal genomes are publicly available. However, a systematic comparative analysis of fungal CAZymes across the entire fungal kingdom has not been reported. In this study, we systemically identified glycoside hydrolases (GHs), polysaccharide lyases (PLs), carbohydrate esterases (CEs), and glycosyltransferases (GTs) as well as carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs) in the predicted proteomes of 103 representative fungi from Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, Chytridiomycota, and Zygomycota. Comparative analysis of these CAZymes that play major roles in plant polysaccharide degradation revealed that fungi exhibit tremendous diversity in the number and variety of CAZymes. Among them, some families of GHs and CEs are the most prevalent CAZymes that are distributed in all of the fungi analyzed. Importantly, cellulases of some GH families are present in fungi that are not known to have cellulose-degrading ability. In addition, our results also showed that in general, plant pathogenic fungi have the highest number of CAZymes. Biotrophic fungi tend to have fewer CAZymes than necrotrophic and hemibiotrophic fungi. Pathogens of dicots often contain more pectinases than fungi infecting monocots. Interestingly, besides yeasts, many saprophytic fungi that are highly active in degrading plant biomass contain fewer CAZymes than plant pathogenic fungi. Furthermore, analysis of the gene expression profile of the wheat scab fungus Fusarium graminearum revealed that most of the CAZyme genes related to cell wall degradation were up-regulated during plant infection. Phylogenetic analysis also revealed a complex history of lineage-specific expansions and attritions for the PL1 family. Our study provides insights into the variety and expansion of fungal CAZyme classes and revealed the relationship of CAZyme size and diversity with their nutritional strategy and host specificity. 
2844728	19881001	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Changes in activities of several enzymes involved in carbohydrate metabolism during the cell cycle of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Activity changes of a number of enzymes involved in carbohydrate metabolism were determined in cell extracts of fractionated exponential-phase populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae grown under excess glucose. Cell-size fractionation was achieved by an improved centrifugal elutriation procedure. Evidence that the yeast populations had been fractionated according to age in the cell cycle was obtained by examining the various cell fractions for their volume distribution and their microscopic appearance and by flow cytometric analysis of the distribution patterns of cellular DNA and protein contents. Trehalase, hexokinase, pyruvate kinase, phosphofructokinase 1, and fructose-1,6-diphosphatase showed changes in specific activities throughout the cell cycle, whereas the specific activities of alcohol dehydrogenase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase remained constant. The basal trehalase activity increased substantially (about 20-fold) with bud emergence and decreased again in binucleated cells. However, when the enzyme was activated by pretreatment of the cell extracts with cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, no significant fluctuations in activity were seen. These observations strongly favor posttranslational modification through phosphorylation-dephosphorylation as the mechanism underlying the periodic changes in trehalase activity during the cell cycle. As observed for trehalase, the specific activities of hexokinase and phosphofructokinase 1 rose from the beginning of bud formation onward, finally leading to more than eightfold higher values at the end of the S phase. Subsequently, the enzyme activities dropped markedly at later stages of the cycle. Pyruvate kinase activity was relatively low during the G1 phase and the S phase, but increased dramatically (more than 50-fold) during G2. In contrast to the three glycolytic enzymes investigated, the highest specific activity of the gluconeogenic enzyme fructose-1, 6-diphosphatase 1 was found in fractions enriched in either unbudded cells with a single nucleus or binucleated cells. The observed changes in enzyme activities most likely underlie pronounced alterations in carbohydrate metabolism during the cell cycle. 
8224795	19930915	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013487 	Raffinose-induced mutanase production from Trichoderma harzianum.	The enzyme alpha(1-->3),3-glucanohydrolase (referred to as mutanase) from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma harzianum OMZ 779 is capable of degrading the water-insoluble glucan in dental plaque. Previously, it was necessary to produce the glucan (referred to as mutan) in vitro for use as the sole carbon source and inducer of mutanase synthesis in fungal cultures. We report here that raffinose also induces the production of mutanase. The metabolism of raffinose differed from that of other sugars in metabolic end products and secreted protein profile. In addition to mutanase, we observed an approximately 15,000 M(r) protein that was also regulated by carbon source and by illumination conditions. 
8810338	19961011	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Different inducibility of expression of the two xylanase genes xyn1 and xyn2 in Trichoderma reesei.	Regulation of formation of the extracellular xylanase system of Trichoderma reesei QM 9414 during growth on xylan, cellulose, and replacement onto a number of soluble inducers was investigated by Northern analysis of xyn1 and xyn2 transcripts and by the use of the Escherichia coli hph (hygromycin B-phosphotransferase-encoding) gene as a reporter. Whereas the xyn1 promoter is active in the presence of xylan and xylose, and virtually silenced in the presence of glucose, the xyn2 promoter enables basal transcription at a low level, but is enhanced in the presence of xylan and xylobiose and also of sophorose or cellobiose. The respective regulatory nucleotide regions were localized on a 221-base pair fragment and a 55-base pair fragment of the xyn1 and xyn2 5'-upstream noncoding sequences, respectively. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays, using cell-free extracts, identified induction-specific protein-DNA complexes: one complex of high mobility was observed under basal, noninduced conditions (glucose) with xyn2, which was in part replaced by a slow-migrating complex upon induction by xylan or sophorose. Both complexes bound to a CCAAT box. With xyn1, the induced complex also binds to a CCAAT box, but this binding is not observed in the presence of the carbon catabolite repressor Cre1, which binds to a nearby located consensus motif. 
21342516	20110224	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Hemicellulases and auxiliary enzymes for improved conversion of lignocellulosic biomass to monosaccharides.	High enzyme loading is a major economic bottleneck for the commercial processing of pretreated lignocellulosic biomass to produce fermentable sugars. Optimizing the enzyme cocktail for specific types of pretreated biomass allows for a significant reduction in enzyme loading without sacrificing hydrolysis yield. This is especially important for alkaline pretreatments such as Ammonia fiber expansion (AFEX) pretreated corn stover. Hence, a diverse set of hemicellulases supplemented along with cellulases is necessary for high recovery of monosaccharides. The core fungal cellulases in the optimal cocktail include cellobiohydrolase I [CBH I; glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 7A], cellobiohydrolase II (CBH II; GH family 6A), endoglucanase I (EG I; GH family 7B) and β-glucosidase (βG; GH family 3). Hemicellulases tested along with the core cellulases include xylanases (LX1, GH family 10; LX2, GH family 10; LX3, GH family 10; LX4, GH family 11; LX5, GH family 10; LX6, GH family 10), β-xylosidase (LβX; GH family 52), α-arabinofuranosidase (LArb, GH family 51) and α-glucuronidase (LαGl, GH family 67) that were cloned, expressed and/or purified from different bacterial sources. Different combinations of these enzymes were tested using a high-throughput microplate based 24 h hydrolysis assay. Both family 10 (LX3) and family 11 (LX4) xylanases were found to most efficiently hydrolyze AFEX pretreated corn stover in a synergistic manner. The optimal mass ratio of xylanases (LX3 and LX4) to cellulases (CBH I, CBH II and EG I) is 25:75. LβX (0.6 mg/g glucan) is crucial to obtaining monomeric xylose (54% xylose yield), while LArb (0.6 mg/g glucan) and LαGl (0.8 mg/g glucan) can both further increase xylose yield by an additional 20%. Compared with Accellerase 1000, a purified cocktail of cellulases supplemented with accessory hemicellulases will not only increase both glucose and xylose yields but will also decrease the total enzyme loading needed for equivalent yields. A diverse set of accessory hemicellulases was found necessary to enhance the synergistic action of cellulases hydrolysing AFEX pretreated corn stover. High glucose (around 80%) and xylose (around 70%) yields were achieved with a moderate enzyme loading (~20 mg protein/g glucan) using an in-house developed cocktail compared to commercial enzymes. 
3332972	19870901	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Expression of two Trichoderma reesei endoglucanases in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The cDNA copies of the two endo-beta-1,4-glucanase genes, egl1 and egl3, from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei were expressed in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae under the control of the yeast phosphoglycerate kinase gene promoter. Active EGI and EGIII enzyme was produced and secreted by yeast into the growth medium. The recombinant EGI enzyme was larger and more heterogeneous in size than the native enzyme secreted by Trichoderma, due to differences in the extent of N-glycosylation between these two organisms. The morphology of the yeast cells producing EGI or EGIII was clearly different from control strain. 
17846725	20070912	Adv._Biochem._Eng._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Consolidated bioprocessing for bioethanol production using Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Consolidated bioprocessing (CBP) of lignocellulose to bioethanol refers to the combining of the four biological events required for this conversion process (production of saccharolytic enzymes, hydrolysis of the polysaccharides present in pretreated biomass, fermentation of hexose sugars, and fermentation of pentose sugars) in one reactor. CBP is gaining increasing recognition as a potential breakthrough for low-cost biomass processing. Although no natural microorganism exhibits all the features desired for CBP, a number of microorganisms, both bacteria and fungi, possess some of the desirable properties. This review focuses on progress made toward the development of baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) for CBP. The current status of saccharolytic enzyme (cellulases and hemicellulases) expression in S. cerevisiae to complement its natural fermentative ability is highlighted. Attention is also devoted to the challenges ahead to integrate all required enzymatic activities in an industrial S. cerevisiae strain(s) and the need for molecular and selection strategies pursuant to developing a yeast capable of CBP. 
11331584	20010502	EMBO_J.	D016428 D013485 	The sortilin cytoplasmic tail conveys Golgi-endosome transport and binds the VHS domain of the GGA2 sorting protein.	Sortilin belongs to a growing family of multiligand type-1 receptors with homology to the yeast receptor Vps10p. Based on structural features and sortilin's intracellular predominance, we have proposed it to be a sorting receptor for ligands in the synthetic pathway as well as on the cell membrane. To test this hypothesis we examine here the cellular trafficking of chimeric receptors containing constructs of the sortilin tail. We report that sorting signals conforming to YXX and dileucine motifs mediate rapid endocytosis of sortilin chimeras, which subsequently travel to the trans-Golgi network, showing little or no recycling. Furthermore, we found that cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor (MPR300)-sortilin chimeras, expressed in mannose 6-phosphate receptor knockout cells, were almost as efficient as MPR300 itself for transport of newly synthesized beta-hexosaminidase and beta-glucuronidase to lysosomes, and established that the sortilin tail contains potent signals for Golgi-endosome sorting. Finally, we provide evidence suggesting that sortilin is the first example of a mammalian receptor targeted by the recently described GGA family of cytosolic sorting proteins, which condition the Vps10p-mediated sorting of yeast carboxypeptidase Y. 
22870052	20120808	Mycobiology	D016428 	Cloning and sequence analysis of the cellobiohydrolase I genes from some basidiomycetes.	Genes encoding the cellobiohydrolase enzyme (CBHI), designated as cbhI, were isolated from the basidiomycetes Auricularia fuscosuccinea, Pleurotus giganteus, P. eryngii, P. ostreatus, and P. sajor-caju. Initially, the fungal genomic DNA was extracted using a modified cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) protocol and used as a DNA template. The cbhI genes were then amplified and cloned using the pGEM-T Easy Vector Systems. The sizes of these PCR amplicons were between 700~800 bp. The DNA sequences obtained were similar showing high identity to the cbhI gene family. These cbhI genes were partial consisting of three coding regions and two introns. The deduced amino acid sequences exhibited significant similarity to those of fungal CBHI enzymes belonging to glycosyl hydrolase family 7. 
14993691	20040303	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction study of two complexes of a TAXI-type xylanase inhibitor with glycoside hydrolase family 11 xylanases from Aspergillus niger and Bacillus subtilis.	Endo-beta-1,4-xylanases hydrolyze arabinoxylan, a major constituent of cereal cell walls, and are nowadays widely used in biotechnological processes. Purified complexes of family 11 xylanases from Aspergillus niger and Bacillus subtilis with TAXI I, a TAXI-type xylanase inhibitor from Triticum aestivum L., were prepared. In both cases the complex was crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. The needle-like crystals of TAXI I in complex with A. niger xylanase belong to the trigonal space group P3(1) or P3(2), with unit-cell parameters a = b = 88.43, c = 128.99 A, and diffract to 1.8 A resolution. TAXI I in complex with B. subtilis xylanase crystallizes in the monoclinic space group C2, with a = 107.89, b = 95.33, c = 66.31 A, beta = 122.24 degrees. Complete data sets were collected for both crystal types using synchrotron radiation. 
12192413	20020823	Nature	D016428 D013485 	A saponin-detoxifying enzyme mediates suppression of plant defences.	Plant disease resistance can be conferred by constitutive features such as structural barriers or preformed antimicrobial secondary metabolites. Additional defence mechanisms are activated in response to pathogen attack and include localized cell death (the hypersensitive response). Pathogens use different strategies to counter constitutive and induced plant defences, including degradation of preformed antimicrobial compounds and the production of molecules that suppress induced plant defences. Here we present evidence for a two-component process in which a fungal pathogen subverts the preformed antimicrobial compounds of its host and uses them to interfere with induced defence responses. Antimicrobial saponins are first hydrolysed by a fungal saponin-detoxifying enzyme. The degradation product of this hydrolysis then suppresses induced defence responses by interfering with fundamental signal transduction processes leading to disease resistance. 
24034432	20130917	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	High production of cold-tolerant chitinases on shrimp wastes in bench-top bioreactor by the Antarctic fungus Lecanicillium muscarium CCFEE 5003: bioprocess optimization and characterization of two main enzymes.	The Antarctic fungus Lecanicillium muscarium CCFEE-5003 was preliminary cultivated in shaken flasks to check its chitinase production on rough shrimp and crab wastes. Production on shrimp shells was much higher than that on crab shells (104.6±9.3 and 48.6±3.1U/L, respectively). For possible industrial applications, bioprocess optimization was studied on shrimp shells in bioreactor using RSM to state best conditions of pH and substrate concentration. Optimization improved the production by 137% (243.6±17.3). Two chitinolytic enzymes (CHI1 and CHI2) were purified and characterized. CHI1 (MW ca. 61kDa) showed optima at pH 5.5 and 45°C while CHI2 (MW ca. 25kDa) optima were at pH 4.5 and 40°C. Both enzymes maintained high activity levels at 5°C and were inhibited by Fe(++), Hg(++) and Cu(++). CHI2 was strongly allosamidin-sensitive. Both proteins were N-acetyl-hexosaminidases (E.C. 3.2.1.52) but showed different roles in chitin hydrolysis: CHI1 could be defined as "chitobiase" while CHI2 revealed a main "eso-chitinase" activity.  
12039719	20020601	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Isomaltulose synthase from Klebsiella sp. strain LX3: gene cloning and characterization and engineering of thermostability.	The gene (palI) encoding isomaltulose synthase (PalI) from a soil bacterial isolate, Klebsiella sp. strain LX3, was cloned and characterized. PalI converts sucrose into isomaltulose, trehalulose, and trace amounts of glucose and fructose. Sequence domain analysis showed that PalI contains an alpha-amylase domain and (beta/alpha)(8)-barrel structures, suggesting that it belongs to the alpha-amylase family. Sequence alignment indicated that the five amino acid residues of catalytic importance in alpha-amylases and glucosyltransferases (Asp(241), Glu(295), Asp(369), His(145), and His(368)) are conserved in PalI. Purified recombinant PalI displayed high catalytic efficiency, with a Km of 54.6 +/- 1.7 mM for sucrose, and maximum activity (approximately 328.0 +/- 2.5 U/mg) at pH 6.0 and 35 degrees C. PalI activity was strongly inhibited by Fe3+ and Hg2+ and was enhanced by Mn2+ and Mg2+. The half-life of PalI was 1.8 min at 50 degrees C. Replacement of selected amino acid residues by proline significantly increased the thermostability of PalI. Simultaneous replacement of Glu(498) and Arg(310) with proline resulted in an 11-fold increase in the half-life of PalI at 50 degrees C. 
19330548	20090331	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Production and regulation of lignocellulose-degrading enzymes of Poria-like wood-inhabiting basidiomycetes.	The wood-decomposing fungal species Antrodia macra, A. pulvinascens, Ceriporiopsis aneirina, C. resinascens and Dichomitus albidofuscus were determined for production of laccase (LAC), Mn peroxidase (MnP), lignin peroxidase (LiP), endo-l,4-P-beta-glucanase, endo-l,4-beta-xylanase, cellobiohydrolase, 1,4-beta-glucosidase and 1,4-beta-xylosidase. The results confirmed the brown-rot mode of Antrodia spp. which did not produce the activity of LAC and MnP. The remaining species performed detectable activity of both enzymes while no strain produced LiP. Significant inhibition of LAC production by high nitrogen was found in all white-rot species while only MnP of D. albidofuscus was regulated in the same way. The endoglucanase and endoxylanase activities of white-rotting species were inhibited by glucose in the medium while those of Antrodia spp. were not influenced by glucose concentration. The regulation of enzyme activity and bio-mass production can vary even within a single fungal genus. 
8763622	19960601	Res._Microbiol.	D016428 	Polysaccharide hydrolase production by the rumen fungus Caecomyces communis.	The anaerobic fungus Caecomyces communis was grown in a fermentor in either a discontinuous cultivation system or in a culture system with daily withdrawal and addition of fresh medium. Lowe and Orpin media were tested. The Lowe medium was best for the stimulation of enzyme production, the Orpin medium, for the stimulation of fungal growth and enzyme release. Xylanase activity was predominant among the polysaccharide hydrolases. Most of the enzymes studied were associated with cells except when the culture medium contained glucose or Ray grass hay. Enzymatic activities were constitutive, but their level was regulated by a carbon source. Cellulase production in both the cellular and extracellular fractions and the extracellular xylanase activity were stimulated by the presence of glucose. Cell-associated xylanase activity, however, was stimulated by glucose plus cellobiose. The presence of glucose enhanced enzyme release. 
1644307	19920801	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and expression in Escherichia coli of a xylanase-encoding gene from the yeast Cryptococcus albidus.	In the yeast, Cryptococcus albidus, a comparison between the sequence of the xylanase (XLN)-encoding chromosomal gene (XLN) and the cDNA sequence reveals the presence of seven introns, ranging in length from 51 to 69 bp. One of their 5' splice site sequences is similar to the consensus sequence for yeast, while the other six resemble the consensus sequence for higher eukaryotes. Their 3' end splice site sequences are representative of the conserved sequence found in eukaryotes. Their putative branching point sequences are different from the well-known conserved sequence, 5'-TACTAAC, observed in yeast, but again resemble the mammalian one. The cDNA encoding XLN is expressed by Escherichia coli, under the control of the lacZ promoter. The gene product remains inside the cell and has a molecular size of 40 kDa, which matches the size of the nonglycosylated protein. When compared to the glycosylated enzyme, the nonglycosylated XLN from E. coli shows twofold less affinity for substrate and its Vmax is 100-fold lower. Moreover, the nonglycosylated XLN only acts on large xylan polymers and very slightly on xylohexaose. 
19266619	20090307	Comp._Biochem._Physiol._B,_Biochem._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning of glycoside hydrolase family 45 cellulase genes from brackish water clam Corbicula japonica.	We previously reported endogenous Glycoside Hydrolase Family (GHF) 9 beta-1,4-glucanase gene, CjCel9A, from common Japanese freshwater clam Corbicula japonica. Here we identified another endogenous beta-1,4-glucanase genes which belong to GHF45 (CjCel45A, CjCel45B). Both genes encode ORF of 627 bp corresponding to 208 amino acids. CjCel45A and CjCel45B are different in 5' and 3'-untranslated regions and six nucleotides in the ORF. CjCEL45 has only one GHF45 catalytic domain without any carbohydrate binding modules as is the case with other molluskan GHF45 enzymes. Phylogenetic analysis and genomic structure of CjCel45 gene implies that this gene is likely to be acquired from fungi by common ancestor of mollusks. Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis and in situ hybridization revealed that CjCel45A is likely to be expressed in the secretory cells in the digestive gland, suggesting that this cellulase is produced in the same site as CjCEL9A. CjCEL45A was successfully expressed in E. coli cells and zymographic analysis of the recombinant CjCEL45A showed that CjCEL45A is a functional beta-1,4-glucanase. The finding of multiple cellulase genes in C. japonica strongly supports our hypothesis that this species function as a cellulose decomposer in estuarine environments. 
22287032	20120131	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 	Alternaria alternata as a new fungal enzyme system for the release of phenolic acids from wheat and triticale brans.	This study describes the release of antioxidant ferulic acid from wheat and triticale brans by mixtures of extracellular enzymes produced in culture by a strain FC007 of Alternaria alternata, a dark mold originally isolated from Canadian wood log. The genus of the mold was confirmed as Alternaria by 18S ribosomal DNA characterization. Enzyme activities for feruloyl esterase (FAE) and polysaccharide hydrolyzing enzymes were measured, and conditions for release of ferulic acid and reducing sugars from the mentioned brans were evaluated. The highest level of FAE activity (89 ± 7 mU ml(-1) fermentation culture) was obtained on the fifth day of fermentation on wheat bran as growth substrate. Depending on biomass and processing condition, up to 91.2 or 72.3% of the ferulic acid was released from wheat bran and triticale bran, respectively, indicating the proficiency of A. alternata extracellular enzymes in plant cell wall deconstruction. The apparent high extraction of ferulic acid from wheat and triticale brans represents a potential advantage of using a whole fungal cell enzyme complement over yields reported previously through an artificial assembly of cloned FAE with a particular xylanase in a cocktail format.  
19645671	20090804	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Enzymological properties of endo-(1-4)-beta-glucanase Eg12p of Penicillium canescens and characteristics of structural gene egl2.	Gene egl2 of secreted endo-(1-4)-beta-glucanase of glycosyl hydrolase family 5 of the mycelial fungus Penicillium canescens was cloned. The gene was expressed in P. canescens under control of a strong promoter of the bgaS gene encoding beta-galactosidase of P. canescens, and endoglucanase producing strains were obtained. Chromatographically purified recombinant 48 kDa protein had pH and temperature optima 3.4 and 60 degrees C, respectively, exhibited specific activity of 33 IU, and had K(m) and V(max) in CM-cellulose hydrolysis of 10.28 g/liter and 0.26 micromol/sec per mg, respectively. 
6020046	19670407	Science	D016428 	Role of enzymatic wall-softening in plant morphogenesis: hormonal induction in Achlya.	Sexual hormone A, which induces antheridial branching in male strains of Achlya, also elicits a rise in cellulase. The peak of induced cellulase corresponds in time with the appearance of branches that are the male sexual organ primordia; only those strains that branch in response to the hormone show a concomitant rise in cellulase. The response to the hormone is inhibited by compounds that block protein synthesis, for example, p-fluorophenylalanine and puronmycin. Vegetative branching, induced by substrates such as casein hydrolysate, is also accompanied by a rise in cellulase. 
15342117	20040903	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Transglycosylation catalyzed by a Penicillium chrysogenum exo-1,5-alpha-L-arabinanase.	Penicillium chrysogenum exo-arabinanase (Abnx), which releases arabinobiose from the nonreducing terminus of alpha-1,5-L-arabinan, was found to possess trans-arabinobiosylation activity on various acceptors, such as aliphatic alcohols, sugars, and sugar alcohols. Abnx was found to prefer primary hydroxyl groups in polyhydric alcohols as acceptors over primary hydroxyl groups in monohydric alcohols. Among the 21 different compounds tested, glycerol was the best acceptor for the enzyme. The transfer product of glycerol was identified as O-alpha-L-arabinosyl-(1-->5)-O-alpha-L-arabinosyl-(1-->1)-glycerol on the basis of the spectral data, fast atom bombardment-mass and 1H- and 13C-NMR. Unlike endo-arabinanases, Abnx catalyzed the hydrolysis of linear arabinan without inverting the anomeric configuration. 
24112636	20131012	Plant_Biol_(Stuttg)	D016428 D013485 	Induced resistance to Botrytis cinerea in Capsicum annuum by a Fusarium crude elicitor fraction, free of proteins.	Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici (FOL) induces resistance in pepper against the airborne pathogen Botrytis cinerea and the soil-borne pathogen Verticillium dahliae. However, its practical use is limited due to its pathogenicity to other crops. In this study we tested several fractions of a heat-sterilised crude FOL-elicitor preparation to protect pepper against B. cinerea and V. dahliae. Only the protein-free insoluble fraction of the preparation reduced B. cinerea infection. However, none of the fractions reduce V. dahliae symptoms. The insoluble protein-free fraction induced expression of defence genes in the plant, namely a chitinase (CACHI2), a peroxidase (CAPO1), a sesquiterpene cyclase (CASC1) and a basic PR1 (CABPR1). Even though the CASC1 gene was not induced directly after treatment with the insoluble fraction in the leaves, it was induced after B. cinerea inoculation, showing a priming effect. The insoluble protein-free FOL-elicitor protected pepper against the airborne pathogen through a mechanism that involves induced responses in the plant, but different to the living FOL.  
17439636	20070419	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and biochemical characterization of an extracellular beta-glucosidase from the wood-decaying fungus Daldinia eschscholzii (Ehrenb.:Fr.) Rehm.	An extracellular beta-glucosidase was purified from culture filtrates of the wood-decaying fungus Daldinia eschscholzii (Ehrenb.:Fr.) Rehm grown on 1.0% (w/v) carboxymethyl-cellulose using ammonium sulfate precipitation, ion-exchange, hydrophobic interaction and gel filtration chromatography. The enzyme is monomeric with a molecular weight of 64.2 kDa as estimated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and has a pI of 8.55. The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside (PNPG) as the substrate, with a K(m) of 1.52 mM, and V(max) of 3.21 U min mg(-1) protein. Glucose competitively inhibited beta-glucosidase with a K(i) value of 0.79 mM. Optimal activity with PNPG as the substrate was at pH 5.0 and 50 degrees C. The enzyme was stable at pH 5.0 at temperatures up to 50 degrees C. The purified beta-glucosidase was active against PNPG, cellobiose, sophorose, laminaribiose and gentiobiose, but did not hydrolyze lactose, sucrose, Avicel or o-nitrophenyl-beta-d-galactopyranoside. The activity of beta-glucosidase was stimulated by Ca(2+), Co(2+), Mg(2+), Mn(2+), glycerol, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), dithiothreitol and EDTA, and strongly inhibited by Hg(2+). The internal amino acid sequences of D. eschscholziibeta-glucosidase have similarity to the sequences of the family 3 beta-glucosyl hydrolase. 
22026998	20111027	BMB_Rep	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and molecular characterization of a new fungal xylanase gene from Sclerotinia sclerotiorum S2.	Sclerotinia sclerotiorum fungus has three endoxylanases induced by wheat bran. In the first part, a partial xylanase sequence gene (90 bp) was isolated by PCR corresponding to catalytic domains (β 5 and β 6 strands of this protein). The high homology of this sequence with xylanase of Botryotinia fuckeliana has permitted in the second part to amplify the XYN1 gene. Sequence analysis of DNA and cDNA revealed an ORF of 746 bp interrupted by a 65 bp intron, thus encoding a predicted protein of 226 amino acids. The mature enzyme (20.06 kDa), is coded by 188 amino acid (pI 9.26). XYN1 belongs to G/11 glycosyl hydrolases family with a conserved catalytic domain containing E(86) and E(178) residues. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that there was no Asn-X-Ser/Thr motif required for N-linked glycosylation in the deduced sequence however, five O-glycosylation sites could intervene in the different folding of xylanses isoforms and in their secretary pathway. 
15809824	20050406	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of the chitinase gene from Trichoderma aureoviride in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Chitinase gene ech42 was obtained from Trichoderma aureoviride M and amplified by PCR. The isolated DNA of ech42 was then sequenced. The results showed that the open reading frame of ech42 was 1,447 bp long, encoding 421 amino acids. Three introns were found in the sequence. The cloning vector pMD18-T and an E. coli DH5alpha host were used to yield clones as E. coli DH5alpha/ech42. The ech42 gene was integrated into the genomic DNA of pYES2 by insertion into a single site for recombination, yielding the recombinant pYES2/ech42. Chitinase expressed by pYES2/ech42 was induced by galactose (maximal activity 0.50 units ml(-1)) and was produced in fermentation liquid cultured for 36 h. 
17724729	20070829	Biopolymers	D016428 D013486 	Automated docking to explore subsite binding by glycoside hydrolase family 6 cellobiohydrolases and endoglucanases.	Cellooligosaccharides were computationally docked using AutoDock into the active sites of the glycoside hydrolase Family 6 enzymes Hypocrea jecorina (formerly Trichoderma reesei) cellobiohydrolase and Thermobifida fusca endoglucanase. Subsite -2 exerts the greatest intermolecular energy in binding beta-glucosyl residues, with energies progressively decreasing to either side. Cumulative forces imparting processivity exerted by these two enzymes are significantly less than by the equivalent glycoside hydrolase Family 7 enzymes studied previously. Putative subsites -4, -3, +3, and +4 exist in H. jecorina cellobiohydrolase, along with putative subsites -4, -3, and +3 in T. fusca endoglucanase, but they are less important than subsites -2, -1, +1, and +2. In general, binding adds 3-7 kcal/mol to ligand intramolecular energies because of twisting of scissile glycosidic bonds. Distortion of beta-glucosyl residues to the (2)S(O) conformation by binding in subsite -1 adds approximately 7 kcal/mol to substrate intramolecular energies. 
14527719	20031007	Gene	D016428 	Genomic DNA analysis of genes encoding (hemi-)cellulolytic enzymes of the anaerobic fungus Piromyces sp. E2.	Anaerobic fungi contain more than one copy of genes encoding (hemi-)cellulases in their genome. The arrangement of these genes on the chromosomes was not known. A genomic DNA (gDNA) library of Piromyces sp. E2 was screened with different probes specific for (hemi-)cellulolytic enzymes. This screening resulted in three gDNA clones with genes encoding glycoside hydrolase enzymes of families 1 (beta-glucosidase), 6 (exoglucanase) and 26 (mannanase). Each clone contained two or more genes of the same family. Comparison of the gene copies on a clone revealed that they were highly homologous, and in addition, 54-75% of the substitutions was synonymous. One of the mannanase genes contained an intron. PCR with selected primers resulted in a gDNA clone with a new representative (cel9B) of glycoside hydrolase family 9 (endoglucanase). Comparison with cel9A revealed that cel9B had 67% homology on the nucleotide level. Furthermore, three introns were present. All results of this paper taken together provided evidence for duplications of (hemi-)cellulolytic genes, which resulted in clusters of almost identical genes arranged head-to-tail on the genome. In contrast to other eukaryotes, this phenomenon appears frequently in anaerobic fungi. 
18405994	20080415	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic hydrolysis of PTT polymers and oligomers.	Oligomers and polymers (film, fabrics) of the linear aromatic polyester poly(trimethylene terephthalate) (PTT) were treated with polyesterases from Thermomyces lanuginosus, Penicillium citrinum, Thermobifida fusca and Fusarium solani pisi. The cutinase from T. fusca was found to release the highest amounts of hydrolysis products from PTT materials and was able to open and hydrolyse a cyclic PTT dimer according to RP-HPLC-UV detection. In contrast, the lipase from T. lanuginosus also showed activity on the PTT fibres and on bis(3-hydroxypropyl) terephthalate (BHPT) but was not able to hydrolyse the polymer film, mono(3-hydroxypropyl) terephthalate (MHPT) nor the cyclic dimer of PTT. As control enzymes inhibited with mercury chloride were used. Surface hydrophilicity changes were investigated with contact angle measurements and the degree of crystallinity changes were determined with DSC. 
10949689	20000819	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Production and secretion patterns of cloned glucoamylase in plasmid-harboring and chromosome-integrated recombinant yeasts employing an SUC2 promoter.	To understand the differences in production and secretion patterns between plasmid-harboring and chromosome-integrated recombinant yeasts, the two recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeasts, containing the structural glucoamylase STA gene and the SUC2 promoter, were investigated. Both systems were regulated by glucose concentration in the culture broth. First, the glucoamylase activity per gene copy number of the chromosome-integrated recombinant yeast was 2.8- to 5.6-fold higher than that of the plasmid-harboring recombinant yeast. Overburdened owing to high copy number, the plasmid-harboring recombinant yeast gave lower glucoamylase activity per gene copy number. Second, the efficiency of signal sequence was compared; the secretion efficiency of glucoamylase in the plasmid-harboring recombinant yeast was higher than that in the chromosome-integrated recombinant yeast at 96 h of cultivation (74 vs 65%). We postulated that the higher level of secretion efficiency of the plasmid-harboring recombinant yeast resulted because the production level did not reach the capacity of the secretory apparatus of the host yeast. However, the specific secretion rate was much higher in the chromosome-integrated recombinant yeast even though the final secretion efficiency was lower. The lower secretion rate in the plasmid-harboring recombinant yeast could be explained by an adverse effect caused by higher production rate. Finally, the optimal glucose concentration for glucoamylase production in the chromosome-integrated recombinant yeast culture was lower than that in the plasmid-harboring recombinant yeast culture owing to gene dosage effect. 
10215886	19990424	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Mode of action of chitin deacetylase from Mucor rouxii on N-acetylchitooligosaccharides.	The mode of action of chitin deacetylase from the fungus Mucor rouxii on N-acetylchitooligosaccharides with a degree of polymerization 1-7 has been elucidated. Identification of the sequence of chitin oligomers following enzymatic deacetylation was verified by the alternative use of two specific exo-glycosidases in conjunction with HPLC. The results were further verified by 1H-NMR spectroscopy. It was observed that the length of the oligomer is important for enzyme action. The enzyme cannot effectively deacetylate chitin oligomers with a degree of polymerization lower than three. Tetra-N-acetylchitotetraose and penta-N-acetylchitopentaose are fully deacetylated by the enzyme, while in the case of tri-N-acetylchitotriose, hexa-N-acetylchitohexaose and hepta-N-acetylchitoheptaose the reducing-end residue always remains intact. Furthermore, the enzyme initially removes an acetyl group from the nonreducing-end residue of all chitin oligomers with a degree of polymerization higher than 2, and further catalyses the hydrolysis of the following acetamido groups in a processive fashion. The results are in agreement with the mode of action that the same enzyme exhibits on partially deacetylated water soluble chitosan polymers. 
110434	19790301	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Activation of serum prophenoloxidase in arthropod immunity. The specificity of cell wall glucan activation and activation by purified fungal glycoproteins of crayfish phenoloxidase.	This study shows that the activation of crayfish serum prophenoloxidase by carbohydrates was specific for beta-1,3-glucans. Fractionation of the beta-1,3-glucan laminaran into laminaran M and laminaran G showed that both activated the proenzyme, but the G-chain had somewhat higher affinity for the proenzyme. Methylation analysis of these two fractions revealed that there were no 1,6-linkages present. Laminaripentaose, a linear pentasaccharide composed of (1 leads to 3)-linked beta-D-glucopyranosyl residues was also active but had a lower affinity for the proenzyme than laminaran G. Laminaran completely inhibited the activation of prophenoloxidase by the pentaose. In the concentrations tested, laminaran was not inhibitory to the phenoloxidase activity. Purified extracellular glycoproteins of the parasitic fungus Aphanomyces astaci also strongly activated crayfish serum prophenoloxidase. Only high molecular weight glycoproteins were effective. Exo-beta-1,3-glucanase treatment decreased the activating capacity, suggesting that at least part of the glycoproteins consisted of beta-1,3-glucans. The significance of these results in the defence against parasitic fungi in crayfish is discussed. 
21993277	20111014	Yi_Chuan	D016428 D013485 D016454 	[Regulation of chitinase genes expression in bacteria].	Chitinases, which can hydrolyze chitin, occur in a wide range of microorganisms including viruses, bacteria, and fungi. The derivatives of chitin are potentially useful in several areas such as food processing, medicines, and biological control in agriculture. Some bacteria can uptake and utilize chitin as carbon source by secreting chitinase. The chitin is degraded into chito-oligosaccharides [(GlcNAc)n] or N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) by chitinases, and then the chitin derivatives are transferred into cells by specific transport systems of bacteria. The intracellular chitin derivatives activate or suppress the transcription of a series of chi genes and affect the amount of chitinase. The expression of chitinase genes are strictly regulated by various regulatory factors and responsive cis-acting elements. The present review will focus on the transport system and the regulation of chitinase genes expression in bacteria. 
20329398	20100325	J_Environ_Biol	D016428 	Comparative assessment in enzyme activities and microbial populations during normal and vermicomposting.	Changes in extracellular enzyme activities and microbial populations were studied during the normal composting and vermicomposting of fruitpulp, vegetable waste, groundnut husk and cowdung. The microbial numbers and their extracellular enzyme profiles showed relative variation and were found increasingly more abundant in vermicompost than in normal compost leading to the conversion of agricultural waste into value added product. In vermicompost, the maximum enzyme activities (cellulase, amylase, invertase, protease and urease) were observed during 21-35 days. The cellulase, amylase and protease activities of vermicompost reached the maximum values by 28th day of 1175, 825 microg reducing sugar g(-1) hr(-1) and 28 micro mol of aminoacid g(-1) hr(-1) of vermicompost samples respectively. Similarly the invertase and urease activities reached to peak values of 876 microg reducing sugar g(-1) hr(-1) and 197 microg NH4(+)-N g(-1) ha(-1) sample on 35th day respectively. Most of the enzymes showed correlation with change in number and types of different microbial groups like bacteria, fungi and actinomycetes during vermicomposting with maximum number of 126 x 10(6), 28 x 10(4) and 93 x 10(5) CFU g(-1) sample respectively. In contrast delayed greatest enzyme activities were observed on 42-49th day i.e., last days of normal composting. Earthworms stimulated biochemical activity and nutrient cycling by 40-45% contributing to the reduction of period of degradation of agricultural wastes resulting in maturation of vermicompost by 28th day. 
22877981	20120811	N_Biotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Stress effects caused by the expression of a mutant cellobiohydrolase I and proteasome inhibition in Trichoderma reesei Rut-C30.	Trichoderma reesei Rut-C30 is used widely as an expression host for various gene products. We have explored cellular effects caused by the expression of a mutant form of cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI), the major secreted protein of T. reesei using biochemical and transcriptomic analyses and confocal laser scanning microscopy. The mutated CBHI was tagged fluorescently with Venus to establish the subcellular location of the fusion protein and its potential association with the proteasome, an organelle assigned for the disposal of misfolded proteins. Expression of the mutant CBHI in the high protein-secreting host Rut-C30 caused physiological changes in the fungal hyphae, affected protein secretion and elicited ER stress. A massive upregulation of UPR- and ERAD-related genes sec61, der1, uba1, bip1, pdi1, prp1, cxl1 and lhs1 was observed by qRT-PCR in the CBHIΔ4-Venus strain with four mutations introduced in the DNA encoding the core domain of CBHI. Further stress was applied to this strain by inhibiting function of the proteasome with MG132 (N-benzoylcarbonyl(Cbz)-Leu-Leu-leucinal). The effect of MG132 was found to be specific to the proteasome-associated genes. There are no earlier reports on the effect of proteasome inhibition on protein quality control in filamentous fungi. Confocal fluorescence microscopy studies suggested that the mutant CBHI accumulated in the ER and colocalized with the fungal proteasome. These results provide an indication that there is a limit to how far T. reesei Rut-C30, already under secretion stress, can be pressed to produce higher protein yields. 
21681588	20110618	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D016428 D013485 	Cellulase and xylanase activity in relation to biofilm formation by two intertidal filamentous fungi in a novel polymethylmethacrylate conico-cylindrical flask.	A polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) conico-cylindrical flask (CCF) with an inner arrangement consisting of eight equidistantly spaced rectangular strips mounted radially on a circular disk to provide additional surface area for fungal attachment was employed for production of cellulase by Chaetomium crispatum and xylanase by Gliocladium viride. The design allowed comparison of production between CCFs with hydrophobic surface (PMMA-CCF), hydrophilic glass surface (GS-CCF) and 500-ml Erlenmeyer flask (EF). Compared with the EF, endo-β-1,4-glucanase and FPase (filter paper degradation) activities increased from 0.044 to 0.156 and from 0.008 to 0.021 IU/ml, respectively, in the PMMA-CCF, while growth of C. crispatum was higher by at most 1.38-fold compared with the other vessels. Xylanase production in the EF was at most 5.08-fold higher and growth of G. viride was at most 1.52-fold higher compared with the other vessels. Temporal pattern of biofilm development based on two-channel fluorescence detection of extracellular polymeric substances (EPSs) and whole cells in a confocal laser scanning microscope demonstrated increase by 100% in biovolume, 25% in thickness and 62.5% both in substratum coverage and total spreading of C. crispatum biofilm in PMMA-CCF over 6 days. Biovolume of G. viride biofilm in GS-CCF increased by 150% over 4 days while that in PMMA-CCF enhanced by 200% over 2 days. Biofilm thickness in PMMA-CCF was 44% higher compared with GS-CCF and increased by 175% over 2 days. Substratum coverage was 38% higher in GS-CCF compared with PMMA-CCF. Thus, reactor surface area and property, shear forces and biofilm formation influenced enzyme production. 
19308458	20090325	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D016428 D013485 	Dynamic modeling and analyses of simultaneous saccharification and fermentation process to produce bio-ethanol from rice straw.	The rice straw, an agricultural waste from Asians' main provision, was collected as feedstock to convert cellulose into ethanol through the enzymatic hydrolysis and followed by the fermentation process. When the two process steps are performed sequentially, it is referred to as separate hydrolysis and fermentation (SHF). The steps can also be performed simultaneously, i.e., simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF). In this research, the kinetic model parameters of the cellulose saccharification process step using the rice straw as feedstock is obtained from real experimental data of cellulase hydrolysis. Furthermore, this model can be combined with a fermentation model at high glucose and ethanol concentrations to form a SSF model. The fermentation model is based on cybernetic approach from a paper in the literature with an extension of including both the glucose and ethanol inhibition terms to approach more to the actual plants. Dynamic effects of the operating variables in the enzymatic hydrolysis and the fermentation models will be analyzed. The operation of the SSF process will be compared to the SHF process. It is shown that the SSF process is better in reducing the processing time when the product (ethanol) concentration is high. The means to improve the productivity of the overall SSF process, by properly using aeration during the batch operation will also be discussed. 
12872308	20030723	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Xylanolytic complex from Aspergillus giganteus: production and characterization.	An Aspergillus giganteus strain was isolated as an excellent producer of xylanase associated with low levels of cellulase. Optimal xylanase production was obtained in liquid Vogel medium containing xylan as carbon source, pH 6.5 to 7.0, at 25 degrees C and under shaking at 120 rpm during 84 h. Among the several carbon sources tested, higher xylanase production was verified in xylan, xylose, sugar-cane bagasse, wheat bran and corn cob cultures, respectively. Optimal conditions for activity determination were 50 degrees C and pH 6.0. The xylanolytic complex of A. giganteus showed low thermal stability with T(50) of 2 h, 13 min and 1 min when it was incubated at 40, 50 and 60 degrees C, respectively, and high stability from pH 4.5 to 10.5, with the best interval between 7.0 to 7.5. This broad range of stability in alkali pH indicates a potential applicability in some industrial processes, which require such condition. Xylanolytic activity of A. giganteus was totally inhibited by Hg(+2), Cu(+2) and SDS at 10 mM. The analysis of the products from the oat spelts xylan hydrolysis through thin-layer chromatography indicated endoxylanase activity, lack of debranching enzymes and beta-xylosidase activity in assay conditions. 
21689797	20110622	N_Biotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Fungi isolated from olive ecosystems and screening of their potential biotechnological use.	This study investigated the fungi diversity of fresh olive (Olea europaea L.) fruits, olive paste (crushed olives) and olive pomace (solid waste) and screened and quantified enzymatic activities with biotechnological applications. Fungi were randomly isolated from olive cultivars from Castilla La Mancha region (Spain). Identification included comparison of their polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplicons of the ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 ribosomal DNA region, followed by nucleotide sequence analysis. Fourteen different species with DNA sequences of different similarities were identified, belonging to seven different genera (Aspergillus, Penicillium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, Rhizopus, Lichtheimia and Galactomyces). Aspergillus fumigatus, followed by Galactomyces geotrichum, Penicillium commune and Rhizomucor variabilis var. regularior were the most frequent species. Specific enzyme screening was assayed on agar plates, using cellobiose, carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), polygalacturonic acid and CaCl(2)/Tween 80 as substrates for β-glucosidase, carboxymethylcellulase (CMCase), polygalacturonase and lipase, respectively. Species exhibiting the best activities were: Aspergillus fumigatus (for β-glucosidase, CMCase and lipase); Rhizopus oryzae (for β-glucosidase and lipase); Rhizomucor variabilis (for β-glucosidase, CMCase and polygalacturonase); Mucor fragilis (β-glucosidase, CMCase and lipase); Galactomyces geotrichum (for β-glucosidase, polygalacturonase and lipase) and Penicillium commune and Penicillium crustosum (for lipase). The species that had shown the best enzymatic activities were grown on hemicellulose, cellulose and pectin and some activities were quantified (xylanase, cellulase, β-glucosidase and pectinase). An isolate of A. fumigatus and one of A. niger showed the best cellulase and xylanase activities, while no species presented good pectinase and β-glucosidase activities. The selected species with potential enzymatic activities could be used for future applications of industrial interest. 
23185612	20121128	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Chitinase mRNA levels by quantitative PCR using the single standard DNA: acidic mammalian chitinase is a major transcript in the mouse stomach.	Chitinases hydrolyze the β-1-4 glycosidic bonds of chitin, a major structural component of fungi, crustaceans and insects. Although mammals do not produce chitin or its synthase, they express two active chitinases, chitotriosidase (Chit1) and acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase). These mammalian chitinases have attracted considerable attention due to their increased expression in individuals with a number of pathological conditions, including Gaucher disease, Alzheimer's disease and asthma. However, the contribution of these enzymes to the pathophysiology of these diseases remains to be determined. The quantification of the Chit1 and AMCase mRNA levels and the comparison of those levels with the levels of well-known reference genes can generate useful and biomedically relevant information. In the beginning, we established a quantitative real-time PCR system that uses standard DNA produced by ligating the cDNA fragments of the target genes. This system enabled us to quantify and compare the expression levels of the chitinases and the reference genes on the same scale. We found that AMCase mRNA is synthesized at extraordinarily high levels in the mouse stomach. The level of this mRNA in the mouse stomach was 7- to 10-fold higher than the levels of the housekeeping genes and was comparable to that the level of the mRNA for pepsinogen C (progastricsin), a major component of the gastric mucosa. Thus, AMCase mRNA is a major transcript in mouse stomach, suggesting that AMCase functions as a digestive enzyme that breaks down polymeric chitin and as part of the host defense against chitin-containing pathogens in the gastric contents. Our methodology is applicable to the quantification of mRNAs for multiple genes across multiple specimens using the same scale. 
12945177	20030830	Tsitol._Genet.	D003160 D016428 	Systemic acquired resistance in sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.).	Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) to infection by Botrytis cinerea in the leaves of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) plants was induced following cotyledon inoculation with B. cinerea or treatment with abiotic inducers. Salicylic acid (SA), benzo-(1,2,3)-thiadiazole-7-carbothioic S-methyl ester (BTH), 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA) or EDTA protected sunflower plants against Botrytis infection, that was revealed by a reduction in the number and area of the necrotic lesions in upper leaves after challenge inoculation with the pathogen. SA and BTH were more potent inducers than INA, EDTA or pre-inoculation with the fungus. In addition to resistance to B. cinerea, the upper leaves have also developed resistance to maceration by a mixture of cell wall-degrading enzymes. Calcium nitrate inhibited both the protective effect and the resistance of leaf discs to cell-wall degrading enzymes. All the tested chemicals increased the synthesis and excretion of sunflower phytoalexins--coumarins scopoletin and ayapin and induced the PR-proteins chitinase and 1,3-beta-glucanase, being the inducer effect of each activator correlated with the level of protection against B. cinerea (BTH > SA > INA > EDTA). Thus, SAR induction is mediated by general increase of plant defence responses. This is the first report on SAR in sunflower. 
18579426	20080627	Comp._Biochem._Physiol._B,_Biochem._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning and characterization of a novel cold-active beta-1,4-D-mannanase from the Antarctic springtail, Cryptopygus antarcticus.	A cDNA encoding a beta-1,4-d-mannanase (CaMan) was identified among the expressed sequence tags (ESTs) of the Antarctic springtail, Cryptopygus antarcticus. The open reading frame consisted of 1149 bp encoding 382 amino acids with a putative signal peptide. Amino acid sequence comparison with other mannanases indicated that CaMan likely belongs to subfamily 10 of the glycoside hydrolase family 5, together with mollusc beta-mannanases. CaMan shows typical features of a cold-active enzyme: it has a high frequency of polar residues such as Asn, Gln, and Ser, and a low frequency of hydrophobic residues as well as a low ratio of Arg/(Arg+Lys) compared to the mesophilic beta-mannanases. When CaMan was fused with the thioredoxin gene in pET-32a(+), expressed in E. coli Rosetta-gami (DE3), and purified after thrombin treatment, catalytically active enzyme was obtained. CaMan has high specific activity (416.3 U/mg) toward locust bean gum at an optimal temperature of 30 degrees C and an optimal pH of 3.5. Its optimal temperature is the lowest among those of the known mannanases and the optimal pH is also the lowest except those of fungi. Even at 0-5 degrees C, this enzyme retained 20-40% of its maximum activity. Divalent metal ions such as Ca(2+), Mg(2+), Cu(2+), and Zn(2+) enhanced the enzyme activity, but Mn(2+), Hg(2+), and Ag(+) inhibited activity. This study represents the first record of a beta-mannanase from an arthropod and provides a new source of carbohydrate hydrolysis enzyme with novel characteristics. 
14593919	20031105	Mol._Biol._(Mosk.)	D004740 D016428 	[Molecular analysis of alpha-galactosidase MEL genes from Saccharomyces sensu stricto].	To infer the molecular evolution of yeast Saccharomyces sensu stricto from analysis of the alpha-galactosidase MEL gene family, two new genes were cloned and sequenced from S. bayanus var. bayanus and S. pastorianus. Nucleotide sequence homology of the MEL genes of S. bayanus var. bayanus (MELb), S. pastorianus (MELpt), S. bayanus var. uvarum (MELu), and S. carlsbergensis (MELx) was rather high (94.1-99.3%), comparable with interspecific homology (94.8-100%) of S. cerevisiae MEL1-MEL11. Homology of the MEL genes of sibling species S. cerevisiae (MEL1), S. bayanus (MELb), S. paradoxus (MELp), and S. mikatae (MELj) was 76.2-81.7%, suggesting certain species specificity. On this evidence, the alpha-galactosidase gene of hybrid yeast S. pastorianus (S. carlsbergensis) was assumed to originate from S. bayanus rather than from S. cerevisiae. 
18337693	20080314	J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of thermostable beta-glucosidase from the brown-rot basidiomycete Fomitopsis palustris grown on microcrystalline cellulose.	An extracellular beta-glucosidase was purified 154-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity from the brown-rot basidiomycete Fomitopsis palustris grown on 2.0% microcrystalline cellulose. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gel gave a single protein band and the molecular mass of purified enzyme was estimated to be approximately 138 kDa. The amino acid sequences of the proteolytic fragments determined by nano-LC-MS/MS suggested that the protein has high homology with fungal beta-glucosidases that belong to glycosyl hydrolase family 3. The Kms for p-nitorophenyl-beta-D-glucoside (p-NPG) and cellobiose hydrolyses were 0.117 and 4.81 mM, and the Kcat values were 721 and 101.8 per sec, respectively. The enzyme was competitively inhibited by both glucose (Ki= 0.35 mM) and gluconolactone (Ki= 0.008 mM), when p-NPG was used as substrate. The optimal activity of the purified beta-glucosidase was observed at pH 4.5 and 70 degrees. The F. palustris protein exhibited half-lives of 97 h at 55 degrees and 15 h at 65 degrees, indicating some degree of thermostability. The enzyme has high activity against p-NPG and cellobiose but has very little or no activity against p-nitrophenyl-beta-lactoside, p-nitrophenyl-beta-xyloside, p-nitrophenyl-alpha-arabinofuranoside, xylan, and carboxymethyl cellulose. Thus, our results revealed that the beta-glucosidase from F. palustris can be classified as an aryl-beta-glucosidase with cellobiase activity. 
12161773	20020806	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Amylase hyperproduction by deregulated mutants of the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus.	Thermomyces lanuginosus was subjected to three cycles of mutagenesis (UV/NTG) and a selection procedure to develop amylase-hyperproducing, catabolite-repression-resistant and partially constitutive strains. One of the selected derepressed mutant strain III(51), produced approximately 7- and 3-fold higher specific activity of alpha-amylase (190 U/mg protein) and glucoamylase (105 U/mg protein), respectively, compared to a wild-type parental strain. Further, the effect of production parameters on mutant strain III(51) was studied using a Box-Behnken design. The regression models computed showed significantly high R(2) values of 96 and 97% for alpha-amylase and glucoamylase activities, respectively, indicating that they are appropriate for predicting relationships between corn flour, soybean meal and pH with alpha-amylase and glucoamylase production. 
15685601	20050203	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Use of the cell wall protein Pir4 as a fusion partner for the expression of Bacillus sp. BP-7 xylanase A in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Xylanase A from Bacillus sp. BP7, an enzyme with potential applications in biotechnology, was used to test Pir4, a disulfide bound cell wall protein, as a fusion partner for the expression of recombinant proteins in standard or glycosylation-deficient mnn9 strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Five different constructions were carried out, inserting in-frame the coding sequence of xynA gene in that of PIR4, with or without the loss of specific regions of PIR4. Targeting of the xylanase fusion protein to the cell wall was achieved in two of the five constructions, while secretion to the growth medium was the fate of the gene product of one of the constructions. In all three cases localization of the xylanase fusion proteins was confirmed both by Western blot and detection with Pir-specific antibodies and by xylanase activity determination. The cell wall-targeted fusion proteins could be extracted by reducing agents, showing that the inclusion of a recombinant protein of moderate size does not affect the way Pir4 is attached to the cell wall. Also, the construction that leads to the secretion of the fusion protein permitted us to identify a region of Pir4 responsible for cell wall retention. In summary, we have developed a Pir4-based system that allows selective targeting of an active recombinant enzyme to the cell wall or the growth medium. This system may be of general application for the expression of heterologous proteins in S. cerevisiae for surface display and secretion. 
15942011	20050609	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Pectin utilization by the methylotrophic yeast Pichia methanolica.	The methylotrophic yeast Pichia methanolica was able to grow on pectic compounds, pectin and polygalacturonate, as sole carbon sources. Under the growth conditions used, P. methanolica exhibited increased levels of pectin methylesterase, and pectin-depolymerizing and methanol-metabolizing enzyme activities. On the other hand, P. methanolica has two alcohol oxidase (AOD) genes, MOD1 and MOD2. On growth on pectin, the P. methanolica mod1Delta and mod1Deltamod2Delta strains showed a severe defect in the growth yield, although the mod2Delta strain could grow on polygalacturonate to the same extent as the wild-type strain. The expression of MOD1 was detected in pectin-grown cells, but the MOD2-gene expression detected by pectin was much lower than that of MOD1. Moreover, pectin could induce peroxisome proliferation in P. methanolica, like methanol and oleic acid. These findings showed that P. methanolica was able to utilize the methylester moiety of pectin by means of methanol-metabolic enzymes in peroxisomes, and that the functional AOD subunit for pectin utilization was Mod1p in P. methanolica. 
9449776	19970101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Purification and the effect of manganese ions on the activity of carboxymethylcellulases from Aspergillus niger and Cellulomonas biazotea.	Carboxymethylcellulases (CMCases) from Aspergillus niger and Cellulomonas biazotea were purified by a combination of ammonium sulfate precipitation, anion-exchange and gel-filtration chromatography with a 12- and 9-fold increase in the purification factor. The native and subunit molar mass of CMCase from A. niger were 40 and 25-57 kDa, respectively, while those from C. biazotea were 23 and 20-30 kDa, respectively. Low concentrations of Mn2+ activated the enzymes from both organisms (mixed activation) with apparent activation constants of 0.80 and 0.45 mmol/L of CMCases from A. niger and C. biazotea, respectively, while at higher CMC concentrations Mn2+ inhibited the enzymes (mixed and partial uncompetitive inhibition). The reason for this complex behavior is that more than one Mn2+ bind to the same enzyme form with the apparent average inhibition constants of 2.7 and 1.3 mmol/L for CMCases from A. niger and C. biazotea, respectively. 
16957894	20060908	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of a chimeric enzyme tool associating the Trichoderma reesei swollenin with the Aspergillus niger feruloyl esterase A for release of ferulic acid.	The main goals of this work were to produce the fusion protein of the Trichoderma reesei swollenin I (SWOI) and Aspergillus niger feruloyl esterase A (FAEA) and to study the effect of the physical association of the fusion partners on the efficiency of the enzyme. The fusion protein was produced up to 25 mg l(-1) in the T. reesei strains Rut-C30 and CL847. In parallel, FAEA alone was produced for use as a control protein in application tests. Recombinant FAEA and SWOI-FAEA were purified to homogeneity and characterized. The biochemical and kinetic characteristics of the two recombinant proteins were found to be similar to those of native FAEA, except for the temperature stability and specific activity of the SWOI-FAEA. Finally, the SWOI-FAEA protein was tested for release of ferulic acid from wheat bran. A period of 24 h of enzymatic hydrolysis with the SWOI-FAEA improved the efficiency of ferulic acid release by 50% compared with the results obtained using the free FAEA and SWOI. Ferulic acid is used as an antioxidant and flavor precursor in the food and pharmaceutical industries. This is the first report of a potential application of the SWOI protein fused with an enzyme of industrial interest. 
9317009	19971008	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013487 	Mapping of a Coccidioides immitis-specific epitope that reacts with complement-fixing antibody.	We have previously cloned the cDNA fragment that encodes the complement fixation antigen of Coccidioides immitis. The recombinant protein was highly sensitive in detecting CF antibody in sera from patients with coccidioidomycosis but was not specific to C. immitis, as evidenced by its reactivity with sera from patients with histoplasmosis and, to lesser extent, blastomycosis. We undertook this study to determine if the epitope(s) that reacts with CF antibody is the same or differs from the epitopes that are shared with Histoplasma capsulatum and Blastomyces dermatitidis. PCR-generated CF/chitinase cDNA fragments were cloned and examined for their reactivity in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays using sera from patients with coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis, or blastomycosis. A peptide domain comprised of amino acid residues 20 through 310 was shown to express an epitope(s) that is specific to anti-Coccidioides CF antibody. The peptide detected serum antibody in 21 (95%) of 22 patients with active coccidioidomycosis and was without reactivity with sera from 20 patients with histoplasmosis, 15 patients with blastomycosis, and 14 healthy subjects. Antibody titers to the recombinant peptide directly correlated with CF antibody titers (P < 0.01), and preadsorption of reference CF antiserum with the peptide ablated the reactivity of the antiserum in the immunodiffusion assay for CF antibody. The delineation of a recombinant peptide that has both sensitivity and specificity will provide a valuable tool for detecting CF antibody and for evaluating the role of CF antibody in the host response to C. immitis. 
17040241	20061017	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 	Degradation of mikan (Japanese mandarin orange) peel by a novel Penicillium species with cellulolytic and pectinolytic activity.	The mikan, or Japanese mandarin orange, is a popular fruit in Japan, but its peel is one of the major agricultural wastes. The aims of this study were to screen, isolate, and characterize a mikan peel-degrading microbe. Several samples including activated sludge, sediment, compost and spoiled mikan peel were collected and cultured in a minimal salt medium containing mikan peel as the sole carbon source. Degradation activity was found in a culture of the spoiled mikan peel, and a fungal strain, designated OP1, with both cellulolytic and pectinolytic activity was isolated. No toxic metabolites, such as mycotoxins, were found in OP1 cultures, as evaluated by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. A phylogenetic analysis strongly suggested that OP1 is a novel species of the genus Penicillium. Results suggest that Penicillium sp. OP1 plays an important role in aerobic microbial degradation of cellulose/pectin-rich biomasses in soil ecology, and further imply that this strain may be useful for both simultaneous cellulase/pectinase production and reduction of agricultural waste. The present results advance our understanding of microbial degradation of cellulose/pectin-rich biomasses in the natural environment, and offer a new tool for reduction of agricultural waste, which is important for sustaining circulatory societies. 
11486829	20010807	J._Chromatogr._B_Biomed._Sci._Appl.	D016428 	Lytic enzyme complex of an antagonistic Bacillus sp. X-b: isolation and purification of components.	Bacillus sp. X-b, a biocontrol agent against certain plant pathogenic fungi, secretes a complex of hydrolytic enzymes, composed of chitinase, chitosanase, laminarinase, lipase and protease. Homogenized mycelium of basidiomycete Macrolepiota procera induced activities of these enzymes more effectively than colloidal chitin or partially purified cell walls of another basidiomycete Polyporus squamosus. Subjected to a multi-step purification, the specific activity of chitinase increased 36-fold, chitosanase 69-fold, lipase 44-fold and laminarinase 15-fold. Partially purified chitinase showed two major bands with molecular masses of 46,000 and 35,000 on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis while chitosanase and lipase appeared as single bands with molecular masses of 27,000 and 62,000, respectively. 
9753433	19980930	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Thermophilic xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus: high-resolution X-ray structure and modeling studies.	The crystal structure of the thermostable xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus was determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The protein crystallizes in space group P21, a = 40.96(4) A, b = 52. 57(5) A, c = 50.47 (5) A, beta = 100.43(5) degrees, Z = 2. Diffraction data were collected at room temperature for a resolution range of 25-1.55 A, and the structure was solved by molecular replacement with the coordinates of xylanase II from Trichoderma reesei as a search model and refined to a crystallographic R-factor of 0.155 for all observed reflections. The enzyme belongs to the family 11 of glycosyl hydrolases [Henrissat, B., and Bairoch, A. (1993) Biochem. J. 293, 781-788]. pKa calculations were performed to assess the protonation state of residues relevant for catalysis and enzyme stability, and a heptaxylan was fitted into the active-site groove by homology modeling, using the published crystal structure of a complex between the Bacillus circulans xylanase and a xylotetraose. Molecular dynamics indicated the central three sugar rings to be tightly bound, whereas the peripheral ones can assume different orientations and conformations, suggesting that the enzyme might also accept xylan chains which are branched at these positions. The reasons for the thermostability of the T. lanuginosus xylanase were analyzed by comparing its crystal structure with known structures of mesophilic family 11 xylanases. It appears that the thermostability is due to the presence of an extra disulfide bridge, as well as to an increase in the density of charged residues throughout the protein. 
17587859	20070626	Int._Arch._Allergy_Immunol.	D016428 D013485 	Occupational sensitization to fungal enzymes used in animal feed industry.	Industrial enzymes cause the increasing prevalence of occupational hypersensitivity. Our objective was to study workers occupationally exposed to fungal enzymes in 2 animal feed factories to determine if the sensitization originated in the enzymes or was caused by the microorganism used to produce the enzymes. Eighty-six consenting workers were studied by skin prick tests with extracts from the enzymatic products handled in their factories. Positive workers were then studied by IgE immunoblotting and basophil activation was measured by flow cytometry. Eight of the 86 workers analysed (9%) tested positive and were more frequently sensitized to phytase from Trichoderma and Peniophora. Glucanase and alpha-amylase from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens did not cause sensitization in any worker. No cross-reactions were observed between Trichoderma and Peniophora sp. phytases. Workers were sensitized to the product that they handled. Fungal enzymes cause occupational hypersensitivity in animal feed industries. Immunoblotting and basophil activation are useful to evaluate the effects of handling enzymes as part of the medical surveillance of enzyme-exposed workers. We describe Peniophora sp. 6-phytase as a new allergen and enzymes from Trichoderma as strong sensitizers. 
19267236	20090310	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Identification and antifungal assay of a wheat beta-1,3-glucanase.	A wheat beta-1,3-glucanase gene (TaGluD) was identified as a fungal defense candidate. Its transcript induction was more than 60-fold higher in a resistant wheat line, Shannong0431, than in a susceptible wheat line, Wenmai6, after infection with Rhizoctonia cerealis. The TaGluD protein was overexpressed as inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli. After refolding and purification, TaGluD with 1 unit of beta-1,3-glucanase showed antifungal activity in vitro against Rhizoctonia solani, R. cerealis, Phytophthora capsici and Alternaria longipes with inhibition rates of 42%, 43%, 32% and 30%, respectively. Thus TaGluD may be useful for enhancing fungal resistance in several crop species. 
11094289	20001130	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Role for trehalase during germination of spores in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Spores from Schizosaccharomyces pombe contain neutral and acid trehalases. When spores from strains disrupted for ntp1(+), which encodes neutral trehalase, were induced to germinate, the onset of the process was markedly delayed as compared to wild-type spores. Further outgrowth was also reduced. Dormant spores lacking neutral trehalase contained twice the amount of trehalose present in wild-type spores and mobilised the intracellular pool of trehalose at a slower rate during germination. Inhibition by phloridzin of the sporulation-specific acid trehalase in ntp1-disrupted spores arrested germination completely while prompting no effect on wild-type spores. These results suggest that the two trehalase enzymes may support the utilisation of trehalose during germination but neutral trehalase is required for a more rapid and efficient process. 
11497467	20010811	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013486 	Inhibition of growth of Aspergillus flavus and fungal alpha-amylases by a lectin-like protein from Lablab purpureus.	Aspergillus flavus is a fungal pathogen of maize causing an important ear rot disease when plants are exposed to drought and heat stress. Associated with the disease is the production of aflatoxins, which are a series of structurally related mycotoxins known to be carcinogenic. Previous research has suggested that the alpha-amylase of A. flavus promotes aflatoxin production in the endosperm of infected maize kernels. We report here the isolation and characterization of a 36-kDa alpha-amylase inhibitor from Lablab purpureus (AILP). AILP inhibited the alpha-amylases from several fungi but had little effect on those from animal and plant sources. The protein inhibited conidial germination and hyphal growth of A. flavus. The amino acid sequence indicated that AILP is similar to lectin members of a lectin-arcelin-alpha-amylase inhibitor family described in common bean and shown to be a component of plant resistance to insect pests. AILP also agglutinated papain-treated red blood cells from human and rabbit. These data indicate that AILP represents a novel variant in the lectin-arcelin-alpha-amylase inhibitor family of proteins having lectin-like and alpha-amylase inhibitory activity. 
8439875	19930101	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Regulation of extracellular N-acetyl-D-glucosaminidase production in the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana.	The entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana produces two extracellular N-acetylglucosaminidases (NAGase) in liquid medium containing colloidal chitin as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen. To study the regulation of NAGase synthesis, N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc), glucose NH4NO3, or amino acids were added to the colloidal chitin medium and NAGase activity was measured. NAGase synthesis was (i) induced with GlcNAc, and no repression was observed with GlcNAc provided at 2% (w/v); (ii) repressed in the presence of glucose plus NH4NO3; (iii) partially repressed when glucose or NH4NO3 was provided; and (iv) repressed to levels that were < 40% of the control levels when glutamic acid, tyrosine, arginine, proline, valine, and histidine were provided to the colloidal chitin medium. Total NAGase activity levels were > 60% of the control activity when alanine, glycine, isoleucine, aspartic acid, and leucine were tested. It appears that synthesis of NAGase is sensitive to cell energy and the carbon and nitrogen requirements. 
12664921	19700101	Life_Sci_Space_Res	D016428 	The effect of high vacuum on oxidative reactions in bacteria and the activity of certain enzymes.	Among the physical factors which might influence micro-organisms one of the most potentially interesting is high vacuum. The effect of high vacuum is less studied as compared with other physical factors. It is impossible to achieve, under laboratory conditions, a vacuum of the order 10(-16) mm Hg which is probably characteristic of space. Earlier, the effect of high vacuum was studied on different bacteria, yeasts, molds and algae. It appeared that spores and fungal conidia were not killed by high vacuum. Later, the effect of high vacuum on physiological processes in micro-organisms was studied. The ability to oxidize glucose or ethanol was studied with Sarcina flava and Bacillus simplex cells after they were subjected for 72 hr to vacuum (10(-8) to 10(-9) mm Hg). The oxidation rate was followed polarographically. The oxidative ability of S. flava cells diminished [correction of dimished] after their subjection to vacuum, while B. simplex spores were unchanged in that respect. The following crystalline enzymes were subjected for 72 hr to the same vacuum: alpha-amylase, catalase, ribonuclease, trypsine and urease. Then the activity of the above enzymes was tested on corresponding substrates. Not a single enzyme was totally inactivated. About 50% of activity was lost with alpha-amylase; 25--35% of activity with catalase, ribonuclease and urease. Trypsine retained its total activity. Thus, high vacuum cannot be listed among factors rapidly inactivating enzymes of micro-organisms. 
22042431	20111102	J_Vis_Exp	D016428 D013486 D059040 	GENPLAT: an automated platform for biomass enzyme discovery and cocktail optimization.	The high cost of enzymes for biomass deconstruction is a major impediment to the economic conversion of lignocellulosic feedstocks to liquid transportation fuels such as ethanol. We have developed an integrated high throughput platform, called GENPLAT, for the discovery and development of novel enzymes and enzyme cocktails for the release of sugars from diverse pretreatment/biomass combinations. GENPLAT comprises four elements: individual pure enzymes, statistical design of experiments, robotic pipeting of biomass slurries and enzymes, and automated colorimeteric determination of released Glc and Xyl. Individual enzymes are produced by expression in Pichia pastoris or Trichoderma reesei, or by chromatographic purification from commercial cocktails or from extracts of novel microorganisms. Simplex lattice (fractional factorial) mixture models are designed using commercial Design of Experiment statistical software. Enzyme mixtures of high complexity are constructed using robotic pipeting into a 96-well format. The measurement of released Glc and Xyl is automated using enzyme-linked colorimetric assays. Optimized enzyme mixtures containing as many as 16 components have been tested on a variety of feedstock and pretreatment combinations. GENPLAT is adaptable to mixtures of pure enzymes, mixtures of commercial products (e.g., Accellerase 1000 and Novozyme 188), extracts of novel microbes, or combinations thereof. To make and test mixtures of ˜10 pure enzymes requires less than 100 μg of each protein and fewer than 100 total reactions, when operated at a final total loading of 15 mg protein/g glucan. We use enzymes from several sources. Enzymes can be purified from natural sources such as fungal cultures (e.g., Aspergillus niger, Cochliobolus carbonum, and Galerina marginata), or they can be made by expression of the encoding genes (obtained from the increasing number of microbial genome sequences) in hosts such as E. coli, Pichia pastoris, or a filamentous fungus such as T. reesei. Proteins can also be purified from commercial enzyme cocktails (e.g., Multifect Xylanase, Novozyme 188). An increasing number of pure enzymes, including glycosyl hydrolases, cell wall-active esterases, proteases, and lyases, are available from commercial sources, e.g., Megazyme, Inc. (www.megazyme.com), NZYTech (www.nzytech.com), and PROZOMIX (www.prozomix.com). Design-Expert software (Stat-Ease, Inc.) is used to create simplex-lattice designs and to analyze responses (in this case, Glc and Xyl release). Mixtures contain 4-20 components, which can vary in proportion between 0 and 100%. Assay points typically include the extreme vertices with a sufficient number of intervening points to generate a valid model. In the terminology of experimental design, most of our studies are "mixture" experiments, meaning that the sum of all components adds to a total fixed protein loading (expressed as mg/g glucan). The number of mixtures in the simplex-lattice depends on both the number of components in the mixture and the degree of polynomial (quadratic or cubic). For example, a 6-component experiment will entail 63 separate reactions with an augmented special cubic model, which can detect three-way interactions, whereas only 23 individual reactions are necessary with an augmented quadratic model. For mixtures containing more than eight components, a quadratic experimental design is more practical, and in our experience such models are usually statistically valid. All enzyme loadings are expressed as a percentage of the final total loading (which for our experiments is typically 15 mg protein/g glucan). For "core" enzymes, the lower percentage limit is set to 5%. This limit was derived from our experience in which yields of Glc and/or Xyl were very low if any core enzyme was present at 0%. Poor models result from too many samples showing very low Glc or Xyl yields. Setting a lower limit in turn determines an upper limit. That is, for a six-component experiment, if the lower limit for each single component is set to 5%, then the upper limit of each single component will be 75%. The lower limits of all other enzymes considered as "accessory" are set to 0%. "Core" and "accessory" are somewhat arbitrary designations and will differ depending on the substrate, but in our studies the core enzymes for release of Glc from corn stover comprise the following enzymes from T. reesei: CBH1 (also known as Cel7A), CBH2 (Cel6A), EG1(Cel7B), BG (β-glucosidase), EX3 (endo-β1,4-xylanase, GH10), and BX (β-xylosidase). 
9315736	19971007	FEBS_Lett.	D003160 D016428 	Isolation and expression of the gene which encodes a novel enzyme with polymethoxygalacturonate-degrading activity in Trichosporon penicillatum.	The novel gene named PSX1, encoding a new protopectinase with the polymethoxygalacturonase activity, was isolated from Trichosporon penicillatum. Nucleotide sequencing revealed that the PSX1 gene is composed of 1080 bases (360 amino acids, 38,747 Da). The N-terminal amino acid sequences of the open reading frame correspond to a signal peptide and propeptide processed by a Kex2-like proteinase. Mature PPase SX1 was composed of 334 amino acids (36,121 Da). PPase SX1 produced by a S. cerevisiae transformant harboring the PSX1 gene degraded methoxylated polygalacturonic acid as a substrate, but not degraded unmethoxylated polygalacturonic acid. 
11472904	20010727	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Growth of chitinolytic dune soil beta-subclass Proteobacteria in response to invading fungal hyphae.	It has frequently been reported that chitinolytic soil bacteria, in particular biocontrol strains, can lyse living fungal hyphae, thereby releasing potential growth substrate. However, the conditions used in such assays (high bacterial density, rich media, fragmented hyphae) make it difficult to determine whether mycolytic activity is actually of importance for the growth and survival of chitinolytic bacteria in soils. An unidentified group of beta-subclass Proteobacteria (CbetaPs) was most dominant among the culturable nonfilamentous chitinolytic bacteria isolated from Dutch sand dune soils. Here we demonstrate that the CbetaPs grew at the expense of extending fungal mycelium of three dune soil fungi (Chaetomium globosum, Fusarium culmorum, and Mucor hiemalis) under nutrient-limiting, soil-like conditions. Aggregates of CbetaPs were also often found attached to fungal hyphae. The growth of a control group of dominant nonchitinolytic dune soil bacteria (beta- and gamma-subclass Proteobacteria) was not stimulated in the mycelial zone, indicating that growth-supporting materials were not independently released in appreciable amounts by the extending hyphae. Therefore, mycolytic activities of CbetaPs have apparently been involved in allowing them to grow after exposure to living hyphae. The chitinase inhibitor allosamidin did not, in the case of Mucor, or only partially, in the cases of Chaetomium and Fusarium, repress mycolytic growth of the CbetaPs, indicating that chitinase activity alone could not explain the extent of bacterial proliferation. Chitinolytic Stenotrophomonas-like and Cytophaga-like bacteria, isolated from the same dune soils, were only slightly stimulated by exposure to fungal hyphae. 
8764988	19960812	FEBS_Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013486 	Purification and biochemical characterization of the ATH1 gene product, vacuolar acid trehalase, from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The disaccharide trehalose plays a critical role in yeast cell survival during conditions of environmental stress. The vacuole of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains an enzyme, acid trehalase (ATH), that is capable of degrading trehalose. Recently, a gene required for ATH activity, ATH1, was cloned and sequenced [Destruelle et al., (1995) Yeast 11, 1015-1025]. The relationship between ATH1 and ATH, however, was not determined. We have purified ATH and shown that it is the ATH1 gene product; peptide sequences from the purified protein correspond to the deduced amino acid sequence of Ath1p. In addition, antiserum to Ath1p specifically recognizes purified ATH. 
20023102	20091222	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Yeast surface display of trifunctional minicellulosomes for simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of cellulose to ethanol.	By combining cellulase production, cellulose hydrolysis, and sugar fermentation into a single step, consolidated bioprocessing (CBP) represents a promising technology for biofuel production. Here we report engineering of Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains displaying a series of uni-, bi-, and trifunctional minicellulosomes. These minicellulosomes consist of (i) a miniscaffoldin containing a cellulose-binding domain and three cohesin modules, which was tethered to the cell surface through the yeast a-agglutinin adhesion receptor, and (ii) up to three types of cellulases, an endoglucanase, a cellobiohydrolase, and a beta-glucosidase, each bearing a C-terminal dockerin. Cell surface assembly of the minicellulosomes was dependent on expression of the miniscaffoldin, indicating that formation of the complex was dictated by the high-affinity interactions between cohesins and dockerins. Compared to the unifunctional and bifunctional minicellulosomes, the quaternary trifunctional complexes showed enhanced enzyme-enzyme synergy and enzyme proximity synergy. More importantly, surface display of the trifunctional minicellulosomes gave yeast cells the ability to simultaneously break down and ferment phosphoric acid-swollen cellulose to ethanol with a titer of approximately 1.8 g/liter. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a recombinant yeast strain capable of producing cell-associated trifunctional minicellulosomes. The strain reported here represents a useful engineering platform for developing CBP-enabling microorganisms and elucidating principles of cellulosome construction and mode of action. 
21909256	20110913	PLoS_Pathog.	D016428 D013485 	Genomic and proteomic analyses of the fungus Arthrobotrys oligospora provide insights into nematode-trap formation.	Nematode-trapping fungi are "carnivorous" and attack their hosts using specialized trapping devices. The morphological development of these traps is the key indicator of their switch from saprophytic to predacious lifestyles. Here, the genome of the nematode-trapping fungus Arthrobotrys oligospora Fres. (ATCC24927) was reported. The genome contains 40.07 Mb assembled sequence with 11,479 predicted genes. Comparative analysis showed that A. oligospora shared many more genes with pathogenic fungi than with non-pathogenic fungi. Specifically, compared to several sequenced ascomycete fungi, the A. oligospora genome has a larger number of pathogenicity-related genes in the subtilisin, cellulase, cellobiohydrolase, and pectinesterase gene families. Searching against the pathogen-host interaction gene database identified 398 homologous genes involved in pathogenicity in other fungi. The analysis of repetitive sequences provided evidence for repeat-induced point mutations in A. oligospora. Proteomic and quantitative PCR (qPCR) analyses revealed that 90 genes were significantly up-regulated at the early stage of trap-formation by nematode extracts and most of these genes were involved in translation, amino acid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, cell wall and membrane biogenesis. Based on the combined genomic, proteomic and qPCR data, a model for the formation of nematode trapping device in this fungus was proposed. In this model, multiple fungal signal transduction pathways are activated by its nematode prey to further regulate downstream genes associated with diverse cellular processes such as energy metabolism, biosynthesis of the cell wall and adhesive proteins, cell division, glycerol accumulation and peroxisome biogenesis. This study will facilitate the identification of pathogenicity-related genes and provide a broad foundation for understanding the molecular and evolutionary mechanisms underlying fungi-nematodes interactions. 
22044963	20111103	Plant_Cell_Rep.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of a bacterial chitosanase in rice plants improves disease resistance to the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae.	Plant fungal pathogens change their cell wall components during the infection process to avoid degradation by host lytic enzymes, and conversion of the cell wall chitin to chitosan is likely to be one infection strategy of pathogens. Thus, introduction of chitosan-degradation activity into plants is expected to improve fungal disease resistance. Chitosanase has been found in bacteria and fungi, but not in higher plants. Here, we demonstrate that chitosanase, Cho1, from Bacillus circulans MH-K1 has antifungal activity against the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Introduction of the cho1 gene conferred chitosanase activity to rice cells. Transgenic rice plants expressing Cho1 designed to be localized in the apoplast showed increased resistance to M. oryzae accompanied by increased generation of hydrogen peroxide in the infected epidermal cells. These results strongly suggest that chitosan exists in the enzyme-accessible surface of M. oryzae during the infection process and that the enhancement of disease resistance is attributable to the antifungal activity of the secreted Cho1 and to increased elicitation of the host defense response. 
10077186	19990317	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Dynamic responses of reserve carbohydrate metabolism under carbon and nitrogen limitations in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The dynamic responses of reserve carbohydrates with respect to shortage of either carbon or nitrogen source was studied to obtain a sound basis for further investigations devoted to the characterization of mechanisms by which the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae can cope with nutrient limitation during growth. This study was carried out in well-controlled bioreactors which allow accurate monitoring of growth and frequent sampling without disturbing the culture. Under glucose limitation, genes involved in glycogen and trehalose biosynthesis (GLG1, GSY1, GSY2, GAC1, GLC3, TPS1), in their degradation (GPH1, NTHI), and the typical stress-responsive CTT1 gene were coordinately induced in parallel with glycogen, when the growth has left the pure exponential phase and while glucose was still plentiful in the medium. Trehalose accumulation was delayed until the diauxic shift, although TPS1 was induced much earlier, due to hydrolysis of trehalose by high trehalase activity. In contrast, under nitrogen limitation, both glycogen and trehalose began to accumulate at the precise time when the nitrogen source was exhausted from the medium, coincidentally with the transcriptional activation of genes involved in their metabolism. While this response to nitrogen starvation was likely mediated by the stress-responsive elements (STREs) in the promoter of these genes, we found that these elements were not responsible for the co-induction of genes involved in reserve carbohydrate metabolism during glucose limitation, since GLG1, which does not contain any STRE, was coordinately induced with GSY2 and TPS1. 
17701287	20070819	Mol._Biol._Rep.	D016428 	Heavy-metal stress induced accumulation of chitinase isoforms in plants.	Plant chitinases belong to so-called pathogenesis related proteins and have mostly been detected in plants exposed to phytopathogenic viruses, bacteria or fungi. A few studies revealed that they might also be involved in plant defence against heavy metals. This work was undertaken to monitor the accumulation of chitinases in a set of heavy-metal stressed plants and bring evidence on their involvement during this kind of stress. Roots of different plant species including Vicia faba cvs. Astar and Piestanský, Pisum sativum, Hordeum vulgare, Zea mays and Glycine max were exposed to different concentrations of lead (300 and 500 mg l(-1) Pb(2+)), cadmium (100 and 300 mg l(-1) Cd(2+)) and arsenic (50 and 100 mg l(-1) As(3+)). In each case, the toxicity effects were reflected in root growth retardation to 80-10% of control values. The most tolerant were beans, most sensitive was barley. Extracts from the most stressed roots were further assayed for chitinase activity upon separation on polyacrylamide gels. Our data showed that in each combination of genotype and metal ion there were 2-5 different chitinase isoforms significantly responsive to toxic environment when compared with water-treated controls. This confirms that chitinases are components of plant defence against higher concentrations of heavy metals. In addition, accumulation of some isoforms in response to one but not to other metal ions suggests that these enzymes might also be involved in a more (metal) specific mechanism in affected plants and their biological role is more complex than expected. 
24372593	20131231	Biotechnol._Appl._Biochem.	D016428 	Improvement of cellulase and xylanase production by solid-state fermentation of Stachybotrys microspora.	The current study investigated the production of cellulases and xylanases from the rare fungus Stachybotrys microspora under solid-state fermentation (SSF) on wheat bran (WB). A comparison of both activities was first performed in submerged cultures using various concentrations of WB, glucose, and cellulose as substrates. The maximal activity of β-glucosidases and xylanases was obtained with 2% and 4% WB, respectively, whereas cellulose yielded the highest endoglucanase production. The SSF conditions were therefore consequently optimized. A moisture content of 70% gave the most significant levels of enzyme production. Inoculation by spores led to better results than by preculture, with 10(5) spores per gram of dried matter as the best inoculum dose for all activities tested. Interestingly, the WB-based medium need not to be supplemented by an exogeneous nitrogen source. Considering the richness of S. microspora secreted proteins as lytic hydrolases, the crude extracellular enzyme extracts were successfully tested in two different biotechnological fields: protoplasting of fungi and subsequent extraction of their DNA, paper pulp hydrolysis to produce fermentable sugars.  
5692804	19680901	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Cellulolytic enzyme system of Trichoderma koningii. Separation of components attacking native cotton.	1. Cell-free culture filtrates from Trichoderma koningii were concentrated by precipitation with ammonium sulphate between the limits of 20% and 80% saturation. 2. Removal of a low-molecular-weight carboxymethylcellulase (CM-cellulase) component by chromatography on Sephadex G-75 had no effect on the ability of the enzyme complex to solubilize cotton. 3. Further chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex separated a component (C(1)) from the C(x) (CM-cellulase) and beta-glucosidase activities. Separately these components had little ability to produce soluble sugars from cotton, but when recombined in their original proportions this capacity was almost completely recovered. 4. The C(x) component was further fractionated on SE-Sephadex into a fraction containing only CM-cellulase and a fraction showing CM-cellulase and beta-glucosidase activities: the latter two components could be separated by heat treatment. 5. The C(1) component had no swelling factor (S-factor) activity (Marsh, Merola & Simpson, 1953; Reese & Gilligan, 1954) on its own, but it had a synergistic effect on the S-factor activity associated with the CM-cellulase and beta-glucosidase components. 
19127367	20090108	J._Comp._Physiol._B,_Biochem._Syst._Environ._Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Food utilisation and digestive ability of aquatic and semi-terrestrial crayfishes, Cherax destructor and Engaeus sericatus (Astacidae, Parastacidae).	Both Engaeus sericatus and Cherax destructor are omnivorous crayfishes consuming a variety of food items. Materials identified in the faeces of both E. sericatus and C. destructor consisted of mainly plant material with minor amounts of arthropod animals, algae and fungi. The morphology of the gastric mill of C. destructor suggests that it is mainly involved in crushing of food material while the gastric mill of E. sericatus appears to be better suited to cutting of food material. Given this, the gastric mill of E. sericatus may be better able to cut the cellulose and hemicellulose fibres associated with fibrous plant material. In contrast, the gastric mill of C. destructor appears to be more efficient in grinding soft materials such as animal protein and algae. Both species accumulated high amounts of lipids in their midgut glands (about 60% of the dry mass) which were dominated by triacylglycerols (81-82% of total lipids). The dominating fatty acids were 16:0, 16:1(n-7), 18:1(n-9), 18:2(n-6), and 18:3(n-3). The two latter fatty acids can only be synthesised by plants, and are thus indicative of the consumption of terrestrial plants by the crayfishes. The similarity analysis of the fatty acid patterns showed three distinct clusters of plants and each of the crayfish species. The complement of digestive enzymes, proteinases, total cellulase, endo-beta-1,4-glucanase, beta-glucosidase, laminarinase and xylanase within midgut gland suggests that both C. destructor and E. sericatus are capable of hydrolysing a variety of substrates associated with an omnivorous diet. Higher activities of total cellulase, endo-beta-1,4-glucanase and beta-glucosidase indicate that E. sericatus is better able to hydrolyse cellulose within plant material than C. destructor. In contrast to E. sericatus, higher total protease and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase activity in the midgut gland of C. destructor suggests that this species is better able to digest animal materials in the form of arthropods. Differences in total cellulase and gastric mill morphology suggest that E. sericatus is more efficient at digesting plant material than C. destructor. However, the contents of faecal pellets and the fatty acid compositions seem to indicate that both species opportunistically feed on the most abundant and easily accessible food items. 
21314954	20110215	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Loosenin, a novel protein with cellulose-disrupting activity from Bjerkandera adusta.	Expansins and expansin-like proteins loosen cellulose microfibrils, possibly through the rupture of intramolecular hydrogen bonds. Together with the use of lignocellulolytic enzymes, these proteins are potential molecular tools to treat plant biomass to improve saccharification yields. Here we describe a new type of expansin-related fungal protein that we have called loosenin. Its corresponding gene, loos1, from the basidiomycete Bjerkandera adusta, was cloned and heterologously expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. LOOS1 is distantly related to plant expansins through the shared presence of a DPBB domain, however domain II found in plant expansins is absent. LOOS1 binds tightly to cellulose and chitin, and we demonstrate that cotton fibers become susceptible to the action of a commercial cellulase following treatment with LOOS1. Natural fibers of Agave tequilana also become susceptible to hydrolysis by cellulases after loosenin treatment. LOOS1 is a new type of protein with disrupting activity on cellulose. LOOS1 binds polysaccharides, and given its enhancing properties on the action of hydrolytic enzymes, LOOS1 represents a potential additive in the production of fermentable sugars from lignocellulose. 
22554348	20120505	Langmuir	D016428 D013486 	Interactions of endoglucanases with amorphous cellulose films resolved by neutron reflectometry and quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring.	A study of the interaction of four endoglucanases with amorphous cellulose films by neutron reflectometry (NR) and quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring (QCM-D) is reported. The endoglucanases include a mesophilic fungal endoglucanase (Cel45A from H. insolens), a processive endoglucanase from a marine bacterium (Cel5H from S. degradans ), and two from thermophilic bacteria (Cel9A from A. acidocaldarius and Cel5A from T. maritima ). The use of amorphous cellulose is motivated by the promise of ionic liquid pretreatment as a second generation technology that disrupts the native crystalline structure of cellulose. The endoglucanases displayed highly diverse behavior. Cel45A and Cel5H, which possess carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs), penetrated and digested within the bulk of the films to a far greater extent than Cel9A and Cel5A, which lack CBMs. While both Cel45A and Cel5H were active within the bulk of the films, striking differences were observed. With Cel45A, substantial film expansion and interfacial broadening were observed, whereas for Cel5H the film thickness decreased with little interfacial broadening. These results are consistent with Cel45A digesting within the interior of cellulose chains as a classic endoglucanase, and Cel5H digesting predominantly at chain ends consistent with its designation as a processive endoglucanase. 
22652839	20120602	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Recent developments in yeast cell surface display toward extended applications in biotechnology.	Yeasts are promising hosts for industrial bio-refinery applications. In yeast cell surface displays, functional proteins, such as cellulases or lipases, are genetically fused to an anchor protein and expressed on the cell surface. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the most commonly used yeast for cell surface display. Engineered yeasts have been utilized for a variety of applications, such as bioethanol production, chemicals synthesis, adsorption of environmental pollutants, and protein evolution. Here, we summarize recent developments in yeast cell surface display techniques for bio-refinery applications, including methods using hosts such as Pichia pastoris, Yarrowia lipolytica, and S. cerevisiae, focusing on the characteristics of anchor proteins and applications. 
2103473	19901201	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 	Evidence for a third structural class of beta-1,3-glucanase in tobacco.	Glucan endo-1,3-beta-glucosidases (beta-1,3-glucanases) have been implicated in several developmental processes and they may also play a direct role in the plant's defense against fungal pathogens. In an effort to characterize the glucanase gene family, complementary DNA clones encoding an acidic form of beta-1,3-glucanase have been isolated from tobacco. The cDNA was expressed in E. coli and shown to encode a beta-1,3-glucanase activity. The protein sequence encoded by the cDNA was found to match the partial protein sequence of PR-35, a previously characterized beta-1,3-glucanase. The protein encoded by the cDNA was purified from the extracellular fluid of TMV-infected tobacco leaves and found by immunological methods to correspond to glucanase PR-Q'. From a detailed analysis of the cDNA it is clear that this glucanase represents a third structural class of enzyme which differs substantially from both the basic, vacuolar glucanase and the acidic, extracellular forms (PR-2, PR-N and PR-O). It has previously been demonstrated that the basic form of beta-1,3-glucanase is synthesized as a pre-pro-enzyme and upon maturation the 21 amino acid signal peptide and a 22 amino acid carboxy-terminal peptide are removed. This processing event has been proposed to be involved with the vacuolar localization of the enzyme. By comparing the deduced protein structure of PR-Q' to that of the basic form it is evident that this extracellular enzyme is missing the carboxy-terminal 22 amino acids. The role of a conserved phenylalanine-glycine dipeptide in the processing of glucanases and other pathogenesis-related proteins from tobacco is discussed. 
22672512	20120608	Front._Zool.	D016428 	Patterns of functional enzyme activity in fungus farming ambrosia beetles.	None In wood-dwelling fungus-farming weevils, the so-called ambrosia beetles (Curculionidae: Scolytinae and Platypodinae), wood in the excavated tunnels is used as a medium for cultivating fungi by the combined action of digging larvae (which create more space for the fungi to grow) and of adults sowing and pruning the fungus. The beetles are obligately dependent on the fungus that provides essential vitamins, amino acids and sterols. However, to what extent microbial enzymes support fungus farming in ambrosia beetles is unknown. Here we measure (i) 13 plant cell-wall degrading enzymes in the fungus garden microbial consortium of the ambrosia beetle Xyleborinus saxesenii, including its primary fungal symbionts, in three compartments of laboratory maintained nests, at different time points after gallery foundation and (ii) four specific enzymes that may be either insect or microbially derived in X. saxesenii adult and larval individuals. We discovered that the activity of cellulases in ambrosia fungus gardens is relatively small compared to the activities of other cellulolytic enzymes. Enzyme activity in all compartments of the garden was mainly directed towards hemicellulose carbohydrates such as xylan, glucomannan and callose. Hemicellulolytic enzyme activity within the brood chamber increased with gallery age, whereas irrespective of the age of the gallery, the highest overall enzyme activity were detected in the gallery dump material expelled by the beetles. Interestingly endo-β-1,3(4)-glucanase activity capable of callose degradation was identified in whole-body extracts of both larvae and adult X. saxesenii, whereas endo-β-1,4-xylanase activity was exclusively detected in larvae. Similar to closely related fungi associated with bark beetles in phloem, the microbial symbionts of ambrosia beetles hardly degrade cellulose. Instead, their enzyme activity is directed mainly towards comparatively more easily accessible hemicellulose components of the ray-parenchyma cells in the wood xylem. Furthermore, the detection of xylanolytic enzymes exclusively in larvae (which feed on fungus colonized wood) and not in adults (which feed only on fungi) indicates that only larvae (pre-) digest plant cell wall structures. This implies that in X. saxesenii and likely also in many other ambrosia beetles, adults and larvae do not compete for the same food within their nests - in contrast, larvae increase colony fitness by facilitating enzymatic wood degradation and fungus cultivation. 
20103719	20100128	FASEB_J.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Two cutinase-like proteins secreted by Mycobacterium tuberculosis show very different lipolytic activities reflecting their physiological function.	Cutinases are extracellular enzymes that are able to degrade cutin, a polyester protecting plant leaves and many kinds of lipids. Although cutinases are mainly found in phytopathogenic fungi or bacteria, 7 genes related to the cutinase family have been predicted in the genome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. These genes may encode proteins that are involved in the complex lipid metabolism of the bacterium. Here, we report on the biochemical characterization of two secreted proteins of M. tuberculosis, Rv1984c and Rv3452, belonging to the cutinase family. Although their amino acid sequence shows 50% identity with that of the well-characterized cutinase from Fusarium solani pisi, and a high level of homology has been found to exist between these two enzymes, they show distinct substrate specificities. Rv1984c preferentially hydrolyzes medium-chain carboxylic esters and monoacylglycerols, whereas Rv3452 behaves like a phospholipase A(2), and it is able to induce macrophage lysis. The tetrahydrolipstatin inhibitor, a specific lipase inhibitor, abolishes the activity of both enzymes. Site-directed mutagenesis was performed to identify the catalytic triad of Rv1984c. Structural models for Rv1984c and Rv3452 were built, based on the crystal structure of F. solani cutinase, with a view to investigating the contribution of specific residues to the substrate specificity. Our findings open new prospects for investigating the physiological roles of cutinase-like proteins in the lipid metabolism and virulence of M. tuberculosis. 
16980427	20060919	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Fermentation of high concentrations of maltose by Saccharomyces cerevisiae is limited by the COMPASS methylation complex.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, genes encoding maltose permeases and maltases are located in the telomeric regions of different chromosomes. The COMPASS methylation complex, which methylates lysine 4 on histone H3, controls the silencing of telomeric regions. Yeast strains deleted for SWD1, SWD3, SDC1, SET1, BRE2, or SPP1, encoding components of the COMPASS complex, fermented a medium containing 22% maltose with noticeably higher attenuation than did the wild type, resulting in production of up to 29% more ethanol. The least effective strain was spp1. Absence of COMPASS components had no effect on the fermentation of media with 20% glucose, 20% sucrose, or 16% maltose. Deletion of SWD3 resulted in larger amounts of MAL12 transcript, encoding maltase, at the late stages of fermentation of 22% maltose. A similar effect on maltase activity and maltose uptake capability was seen. The lysine 4 residue of histone H3 was trimethylated in wild-type cells at the late stages, while only small amounts of the dimethylated form were detected. Trimethylation and dimethylation of this residue were not detected in strains deleted for SWD1, SWD3, SET1, BRE2, or SDC1. Trimethylated lysine 4 was apparent only at the early stages (48 and 96 h) of fermentation in an spp1 strain. This work indicates that the COMPASS complex represses the expression of maltose utilization genes during the late stages of fermentation of a high concentration of maltose. 
23519806	20130323	Acta_Crystallogr._Sect._F_Struct._Biol._Cryst._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of recombinant β-mannosidase from Aspergillus niger.	β-Mannosidase (EC 3.2.1.25) is an important exoglycosidase specific for the hydrolysis of terminal β-linked mannoside in various oligomeric saccharide structures. β-Mannosidase from Aspergillus niger was expressed in Pichia pastoris and purified to clear homogeneity. β-Mannosidase was crystallized in the presence of D-mannose and the crystal diffracted to 2.41 Å resolution. The crystal belonged to space group P1, with unit-cell parameters a=62.37, b=69.73, c=69.90 Å, α=108.20, β=101.51, γ=103.20°. The parameters derived from the data collection indicate the presence of one molecule in the asymmetric unit. 
17785425	20070906	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Specific and covalent labeling of a membrane protein with organic fluorochromes and quantum dots.	The real-time observation of protein dynamics in living cells and organisms is of fundamental importance for understanding biological processes. Most approaches to labeling proteins exploit noncovalent interactions, unsuitable to long-term studies, or genetic fusion to naturally occurring fluorescent proteins that often have unsatisfactory optical properties. Here we used the fungal enzyme cutinase and its suicide substrate p-nitrophenyl phosphonate to covalently attach a variety of labels to the integrin lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) on the surface of living cells. Cutinase was embedded in the extracellular domain of LFA-1 with no appreciable influence on integrin function and conformational regulation. p-nitrophenyl phosphonate-conjugated fluorochromes, including the very bright and stable quantum dots, bound efficiently and specifically to LFA-1/cutinase. The availability of a genetically encoded tag that binds covalently to quantum dots could foster the development of new experimental strategies for the study of protein dynamics in vivo. 
16183021	20050927	Chem._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Methylxanthine drugs are chitinase inhibitors: investigation of inhibition and binding modes.	Family 18 chitinases play key roles in a range of pathogenic organisms and are overexpressed in the asthmatic lung. By screening a library of marketed drug molecules, we have identified methylxanthine derivatives as possible inhibitor leads. These derivatives, theophylline, caffeine, and pentoxifylline, are used therapeutically as antiinflammatory agents, with pleiotropic mechanisms of action. Here it is shown that they are also competitive inhibitors against a fungal family 18 chitinase, with pentoxifylline being the most potent (K(i) of 37 microM). Crystallographic analysis of chitinase-inhibitor complexes revealed specific interactions with the active site, mimicking the reaction intermediate analog, allosamidin. Mutagenesis identified the key active site residues, conserved in mammalian chitinases, which contribute to inhibitor affinity. Enzyme assays also revealed that these methylxanthines are active against human chitinases. 
21651500	20110610	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	Catalytic properties of the Gas family β-(1,3)-glucanosyltransferases active in fungal cell-wall biogenesis as determined by a novel fluorescent assay.	BGTs [β-(1,3)-glucanosyltransglycosylases; EC 2.4.1.-] of the GH72 (family 72 of glycosylhydrolases) are GPI (glycosylphosphatidylinositol)-anchored proteins that play an important role in the biogenesis of fungal cell walls. They randomly cleave glycosidic linkages in β-(1,3)-glucan chains and ligate the polysaccharide portions containing newly formed reducing ends to C(3)(OH) at non-reducing ends of other β-(1,3)-glucan molecules. We have developed a sensitive fluorescence-based method for the assay of transglycosylating activity of GH72 enzymes. In the new assay, laminarin [β-(1,3)-glucan] is used as the glucanosyl donor and LamOS (laminarioligosaccharides) fluorescently labelled with SR (sulforhodamine) serve as the acceptors. The new fluorescent assay was employed for partial biochemical characterization of the heterologously expressed Gas family proteins from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. All the Gas enzymes specifically used laminarin as the glucanosyl donor and a SR-LamOS of DP (degree of polymerization) ≥5 as the acceptors. Gas proteins expressed in distinct stages of the yeast life cycle showed differences in their pH optima. Gas1p and Gas5p, which are expressed during vegetative growth, had the highest activity at pH 4.5 and 3.5 respectively, whereas the sporulation-specific Gas2p and Gas4p were most active between pH 5 and 6. The novel fluorescent assay provides a suitable tool for the screening of potential glucanosyltransferases or their inhibitors. 
804341	19750401	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Release of cell-bound polygalacturonase and cellulase from mycelium of Rhizoctonia solani.	Propagules of Rhizoctonia solani grown in modified Czapek's medium containing sodium polypectate or carboxymethyl cellulose as a sole carbon source produced both extracellular and cell-bound polygalacturonase (PG), and cellulase (Cx), respectively. The cell-bound enzymes can be released to various extents by shaking the germinating propagules in solutions of NaCl, KCl, phosphate buffer, Na2EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetate), detergents such as Triton X-100 (octyl phenoxypolyethoxyethanol), Tween 80 (polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate), Celmusol, and distilled water. Sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) inactivated both PG and Cx but did no affect Cx activity in phosphate buffer solution. PG was more easily released by salts from the mycelium of R. solani than Cx. The release of both enzymes was a passive process and was not due to an osmotic effect. The amount of the cell-bound fraction was correlated with the total amount of the extracellular fraction rather than with the mycelial growth. At least one-third of the cell-bound fractions of both enzymes was found to be associated with the cell wall fraction of the mycelium. 
24126380	20131016	Molecules	D016428 D013485 	Antimicrobial and selected in vitro enzyme inhibitory effects of leaf extracts, flavonols and indole alkaloids isolated from Croton menyharthii.	Croton species are used in folk medicine in the management of infections, inflammation and oxidative stress-related diseases. In order to isolate, characterize and evaluate the bioactive constituents of Croton menyharthii Pax leaf extracts, repeated column fractionation of the ethyl acetate fraction from a 20% aqueous methanol crude extract afforded three flavonols identified by NMR (1D and 2D) spectroscopic methods as myricetrin-3-O-rhamnoside (myricetrin, 1), quercetin-3-O-rhamnoside (2) and quercetin (3) along with an indole alkaloid, (E)-N-(4-hydroxycinnamoyl)-5-hydroxytryptamine, [trans-N-(p-coumaroyl) serotonin, 4]. All the compounds are reported from the leaf extract of this plant for the first time. The crude extracts, four solvent fractions (hexane, DCM, ethyl acetate and butanol) and isolated compounds obtained from the leaves were evaluated for their inhibitory effects on selected bacteria, a fungus (Candida albicans), cyclooxygenase (COX-2), α-glucosidase and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Amongst the compounds, quercetin (3) was the most active against Bacillus subtilis and Candida albicans while myricetrin-3-O-rhamnoside (1) and trans-N-(p-coumaroyl) serotonin (4) were the most active compounds against Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumonia and Staphylococcus aureus. The inhibitory activity of myricetrin-3-O-rhamnoside (1) against COX-2 was insignificant while that of the other three compounds 2-4 was low. The AChE inhibitory activity of the alkaloid, trans-N-(p-coumaroyl) serotonin was high, with a percentage inhibitory activity of 72.6% and an IC50 value of 15.0 µg/mL. The rest of the compounds only had moderate activity. Croton menyharthii leaf extracts and isolated compounds inhibit α-glucosidase at very low IC50 values compared to the synthetic drug acarbose. Structure activity relationship of the isolated flavonols 1-3 is briefly outlined. Compounds 1-4 and the leaf extracts exhibited a broad spectrum of activities. This validates the ethnomedicinal use of the plant in folk medicine.  
23432824	20130226	BMC_Genomics	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparative transcriptomics reveals different strategies of Trichoderma mycoparasitism.	Trichoderma is a genus of mycotrophic filamentous fungi (teleomorph Hypocrea) which possess a bright variety of biotrophic and saprotrophic lifestyles. The ability to parasitize and/or kill other fungi (mycoparasitism) is used in plant protection against soil-borne fungal diseases (biological control, or biocontrol). To investigate mechanisms of mycoparasitism, we compared the transcriptional responses of cosmopolitan opportunistic species and powerful biocontrol agents Trichoderma atroviride and T. virens with tropical ecologically restricted species T. reesei during confrontations with a plant pathogenic fungus Rhizoctonia solani. The three Trichoderma spp. exhibited a strikingly different transcriptomic response already before physical contact with alien hyphae. T. atroviride expressed an array of genes involved in production of secondary metabolites, GH16 ß-glucanases, various proteases and small secreted cysteine rich proteins. T. virens, on the other hand, expressed mainly the genes for biosynthesis of gliotoxin, respective precursors and also glutathione, which is necessary for gliotoxin biosynthesis. In contrast, T. reesei increased the expression of genes encoding cellulases and hemicellulases, and of the genes involved in solute transport. The majority of differentially regulated genes were orthologues present in all three species or both in T. atroviride and T. virens, indicating that the regulation of expression of these genes is different in the three Trichoderma spp. The genes expressed in all three fungi exhibited a nonrandom genomic distribution, indicating a possibility for their regulation via chromatin modification. This genome-wide expression study demonstrates that the initial Trichoderma mycotrophy has differentiated into several alternative ecological strategies ranging from parasitism to predation and saprotrophy. It provides first insights into the mechanisms of interactions between Trichoderma and other fungi that may be exploited for further development of biofungicides. 
15246667	20040713	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of fungal alpha-amylase by Saccharomyces kluyveri in glucose-limited cultivations.	Heterologous protein production by the yeast Saccharomyces kluyveri was investigated under aerobic glucose-limited conditions. Alpha-amylase from Aspergillus oryzae was used as model protein and the gene was expressed from a S. cerevisiae 2 micro plasmid. For comparison, strains of both S. kluyveri and S. cerevisiae were transformed with the same plasmid, which led to secretion of active alpha-amylase in both cases. The S. cerevisiae 2 micro plasmid was found to be stable in S. kluyveri as evaluated by a constant alpha-amylase productivity in a continuous cultivation for more than 40 generations. S. kluyveri and S. cerevisiae secreted alpha-amylase with similar yields during continuous cultivations at dilution rates of 0.1 and 0.2 h(-1) (4.8-5.7 mg (g dry weight)(-1)). At a dilution rate of 0.3 h(-1) the metabolism of S. kluyveri was fully respiratory, whereas S. cerevisiae produced significant amounts of ethanol. A fed-batch cultivation was carried out with S. kluyveri where the biomass concentration reached 85 g l(-1) and the alpha-amylase concentration reached 320 mg l(-1). Even though S. kluyveri could be grown to high cell density, it was also observed that it has a high maintenance coefficient, which resulted in low biomass yields at the low specific growth rates prevailing towards the end of the fed-batch cultivation. 
21367655	20110304	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 	Cloning and optimized expression of a neutral endoglucanase gene (ncel5A) from Volvariella volvacea WX32 in Pichia pastoris.	A cDNA fragment encoding a mature neutral endoglucanase with 366 amino acids was cloned from Volvariella volvacea WX32. Online analysis of amino acid sequence homology showed that the endoglucanase, designated as NCel5A, belongs to glycoside hydrolase family 5. The recombinant plasmid, pPIC9K-ncel5A, was transformed into Pichia pastoris GS115 by electroporation. Screening of multiple copies of the gene ncel5A in transformants was performed on YPD plates containing geneticin G418. One transformant expressing the highest recombinant NCel5A (rNCel5A) activity, numbered as GSNCel4-3, was chosen for optimizing expression conditions. In optimized conditions, the expressed rNCel5A activity was up to 4612 U/ml. SDS-PAGE and enzyme activity assays demonstrated that the rNCel5A, a glycosylated protein with an M.W. of about 42 kDa, was extracellularly expressed in P. pastoris. The rNCel5A showed the highest activity at pH 7.5 and 55°C and was stable at a broad pH range of 6.0-9.0 and at a temperature of 55°C or below. 
16550458	20060322	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Extracellular chitinases of fluorescent pseudomonads antifungal to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi causing carnation wilt.	Vascular wilt of carnation caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi (Prill. & Delacr.) W. C. Synder & H.N. Hans inflicts substantial yield and quality loss to the crop. Mycolytic enzymes such as chitinases are antifungal and contribute significantly to the antagonistic activity of fluorescent pseudomonads belonging to plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria. Fluorescent pseudomonads antagonistic to the vascular wilt pathogen were studied for their ability to grow and produce chitinases on different substrates. Bacterial cells grown on chitin-containing media showed enhanced growth and enzyme production with increased anti-fungal activity against the pathogen. Furthermore, the cell-free bacterial culture filtrate from chitin-containing media also significantly inhibited the mycelial growth. Both the strains and their cell-free culture filtrate from chitin-amended media showed the formation of lytic zones on chitin agar, indicating chitinolytic ability. Extracellular proteins of highly antagonistic bacterial strain were isolated from cell-free extracts of media amended with chitin and fungal cell wall. These cell-free conditioned media contained one to seven polypeptides. Western blot analysis revealed two isoforms of chitinase with molecular masses of 43 and 18.5 kDa. Further plate assay for mycelial growth inhibition showed the 43-kDa protein to be antifungal. The foregoing studies clearly established the significance of chitinases in the antagonism of fluorescent pseudomonads, showing avenues for possible exploitation in carnation wilt management. 
24286470	20131130	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Comparative secretome analysis of Trichoderma asperellum S4F8 and Trichoderma reesei Rut C30 during solid-state fermentation on sugarcane bagasse.	The lignocellulosic enzymes of Trichoderma species have received particular attention with regard to biomass conversion to biofuels, but the production cost of these enzymes remains a significant hurdle for their commercial application. In this study, we quantitatively compared the lignocellulolytic enzyme profile of a newly isolated Trichoderma asperellum S4F8 strain with that of Trichoderma reesei Rut C30, cultured on sugarcane bagasse (SCB) using solid-state fermentation (SSF). Comparison of the lignocellulolytic enzyme profiles of S4F8 and Rut C30 showed that S4F8 had significantly higher hemicellulase and β-glucosidase enzyme activities. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the two fungal secretomes enabled the detection of 815 proteins in total, with 418 and 397 proteins being specific for S4F8 and Rut C30, respectively, and 174 proteins being common to both strains. In-depth analysis of the associated biological functions and the representation of glycoside hydrolase family members within the two secretomes indicated that the S4F8 secretome contained a higher diversity of main and side chain hemicellulases and β-glucosidases, and an increased abundance of some of these proteins compared with the Rut C30 secretome. In SCB SSF, T. asperellum S4F8 produced a more complex lignocellulolytic cocktail, with enhanced hemicellulose and cellobiose hydrolysis potential, compared with T. reesei Rut C30. This bodes well for the development of a more cost-effective and efficient lignocellulolytic enzyme cocktail from T. asperellum for lignocellulosic feedstock hydrolysis. 
9446681	19980404	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Amygdalin degradation by Mucor circinelloides and Penicillium aurantiogriseum: mechanisms of hydrolysis.	Mucor circinelloides LU M40 and Penicillium aurantiogriseum P 35 produce extracellular beta-glycosidases that are active on the cyanogenic glycoside amygdalin. From the culture broths of M. circinelloides, only one beta-glycosidase could be identified, while two different enzymes - both having amygdalase activity - were found in culture broths of P. aurantiogriseum. The study of the mechanism of hydrolysis of the beta-bis-glycoside amygdalin with purified enzymes from the two organisms indicated a possible sequential (two-step) reaction. In all cases, the first step of hydrolysis from amygdalin to prunasin was very rapid, while the second step from prunasin to cyanohydrin was much slower. No cyanohydrin lyase activity was found in the culture broths of either fungus. 
10617646	20000105	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	Structural and functional definition of the human chitinase chitin-binding domain.	Mammalian chitinase, a chitinolytic enzyme expressed by macrophages, has been detected in atherosclerotic plaques and is elevated in blood and tissues of guinea pigs infected with Aspergillus. Its normal physiological function is unknown. To understand how the enzyme interacts with its substrate, we have characterized the chitin-binding domain. The C-terminal 49 amino acids make up the minimal sequence required for chitin binding activity. The absence of this domain does not affect the ability of the enzyme to hydrolyze the soluble substrate, triacetylchitotriose, but abolishes hydrolysis of insoluble chitin. Within the minimal chitin-binding domain are six cysteines; mutation of any one of these to serine results in complete loss of chitin binding activity. Analysis of purified recombinant chitin-binding domain revealed the presence of three disulfide linkages. The recombinant domain binds specifically to chitin but does not bind chitosan, cellulose, xylan, beta-1, 3-glucan, beta-1,3-1,4-glucan, or mannan. Fluorescently tagged chitin-binding domain was used to demonstrate chitin-specific binding to Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, Mucor rouxii, and Neurospora crassa. These experiments define structural features of the minimal domain of human chitinase required for both specifically binding to and hydrolyzing insoluble chitin and demonstrate relevant binding within the context of the fungal cell wall. 
19479322	20090530	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptional profiling of cellulase and expansin-related genes in a hypercellulolytic Trichoderma reesei.	Expression kinetics of six cellulase and four expansin-related genes were studied in the hypercellulolytic Trichoderma reesei CL847 mutant in response to Solka Floc cellulose and soluble inducers. Real-time PCR showed a parallel increase of transcript levels for the cellulase genes cbh1/cel7a, egl1/cel7b, egl4/cel61a, the beta-glucosidase genes bgl1/cel3a, bgl2/cel1a, and the swo1 gene, encoding the cell-wall loosening protein swollenin. To evaluate a putative implication of three newly identified expansin/family 45 endoglucanase-like (EEL) proteins in lignocellulose degradation, their expression was also analysed. Only eel2 was found to be transcribed under the present conditions, and showed constitutive expression similar to the endoglucanase encoding cel5b gene. 
23613286	20130425	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Functional properties of a manganese-activated exo-polygalacturonase produced by a thermotolerant fungus Aspergillus niveus.	A thermotolerant fungus identified as Aspergillus niveus was isolated from decomposing materials and it has produced excellent levels of hydrolytic enzymes that degrade plant cell walls. A. niveus germinated faster at 40 °C, presenting protein levels almost twofold higher than at 25 °C. The crude extract of the A. niveus culture was purified by diethylaminoethyl (DEAE)-cellulose, followed by Biogel P-100 column. Polygalacturonase (PG) is a glycoprotein with 37.7 % carbohydrate, molecular mass of 102.6 kDa, and isoelectric point of 5.4. The optimum temperature and pH were 50 °C and 4.0-6.5, respectively. The enzyme was stable at pH 3.0 to 9.0 for 24 h. The DEAE-cellulose derivative was about sixfold more stable at 60 °C than the free enzyme. Moreover, the monoaminoethyl-N-aminoethyl-agarose derivative was tenfold more stable than the free enzyme. PG was 232 % activated by Mn(2+). The hydrolysis product of sodium polypectate corresponded at monogalacturonic acid, which classifies the enzyme as an exo-PG. The K m, V max, K cat, and K cat/K m values were 6.7 mg/ml, 230 U/mg, 393.3/s, and 58.7 mg/ml/s, respectively. The N-terminal amino acid sequence presented 80 % identity with PglB1, PglA2, and PglA3 putative exo-PG of Aspergillus fumigatus and an exo-PG Neosartorya fischeri.  
1530843	19920101	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013487 	Glucans synthesized in situ in experimental salivary pellicle function as specific binding sites for Streptococcus mutans.	Many researchers have suggested that the role of glucan-mediated interactions in the adherence of Streptococcus mutans is restricted to accumulation of this cariogenic bacterium following its sucrose (i.e., glucan)-independent binding to saliva-coated tooth surfaces. However, the presence of enzymatically active glucosyltransferase in salivary pellicle suggests that glucans could also promote the initial adherence of S. mutans to the teeth. In the present study, the commonly used hydroxyapatite adherence assay was modified to include the incorporation of glucosyltransferase and the synthesis of glucans in situ on saliva-coated hydroxyapatite beads. Several laboratory strains and clinical isolates of S. mutans were examined for their ability to adhere to experimental pellicles, either with or without the prior formation of glucans in situ. Results showed that most strains of S. mutans bound stereospecifically to glucans synthesized in pellicle. Inhibition studies with various polysaccharides and fungal dextranase indicated that alpha 1,6-linked glucose residues were of primary importance in the glucan binding observed. Scanning electron microscopic analysis showed direct binding of S. mutans to hydroxyapatite surface-associated polysaccharide and revealed no evidence of trapping or cell-to-cell binding. S. mutans strains also attached to host-derived structures in experimental pellicles, and the data suggest that the bacterial adhesins which recognize salivary binding sites were distinct from glucan-binding adhesins. Furthermore, glucans formed in experimental pellicles appeared to mask the host-derived components. These results support the concept that glucans synthesized in salivary pellicle can promote the selective adherence of the cariogenic streptococci which colonize human teeth. 
8482539	19930430	Gene	D016428 	Cloning and structural organization of a xylanase-encoding gene from penicillium chrysogenum.	The filamentous fungus, Penicillium chrysogenum, is able to grow on xylan as a sole carbon source. Under these conditions, high levels of a xylanase (XYLP) are secreted into the medium. After purification and characterization of this enzyme, we have isolated both the encoding cDNA and the genomic sequence by using oligodeoxyribonucleotides derived from partial amino acid (aa) sequences of the purified enzyme. The gene is approximately 1.6 kb in length, and comparison of the nucleotide (nt) sequence of the genomic and the cDNA clone revealed the presence of ten exons and nine introns. All intron/exon splice junctions exactly follow the GT/AG rule, except for the seventh intron which shows atypical AT/AC splice sites. The immediate 5'-flanking region of the first exon contains one putative CCAAT consensus sequence and a perfect TATA box. Primer extension analysis revealed two transcription start points located 38 and 34 nt upstream from the ATG start codon. A sequence of 23 aa representing a typical signal peptide is present at the N terminus of the deduced aa sequence. Northern blot analysis of total cellular RNA indicated that xylP encodes a 1.3-kb transcript which is induced by xylan. The aa sequence of XYLP shows considerable homology to high-M(r) acidic xylanases (Xln) and cellulases from different bacteria, yeasts and fungi. 
3084921	19860201	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 	Allelism within the DEX and STA gene families in Saccharomyces diastaticus.	Saccharomyces diastaticus produces an extracellular glucoamylase and is therefore capable of hydrolyzing and fermenting starch. Tamaki (1978) studied starch utilization in S. diastaticus and found three polymeric genes controlling this function: STA1, STA2 and STA3. Independently, Erratt and Stewart (1978) studied dextrin utilization by the yeast S. diastaticus and designated the gene, which they identified, DEX1. Erratt and Stewart (1981 a, b) later described two other genes which controlled glucoamylase production in S. diastaticus: DEX2 and a third which was allelic to STA3. At that time STA1 and STA2 were not available to test for allelism in the DEX gene family. In this study strains containing the remaining 4 genes have been examined to determine if further allelism exists between the two gene families. It was ascertained that DEX1 is allelic to STA2 and DEX2 is allelic to STA1. Therefore, no new gene controlling starch utilization has been identified and these two nomenclatures can now be consolidated into one. Based on the fact that the glucoamylase from S. diastaticus can hydrolyze both dextrin and starch, dextrin being the term used to describe partially hydrolyzed starch, and the more wide use of the nomenclature STA, we propose to retain STA as the designation for genes coding for glucoamylase production in S. diastaticus. 
9697338	19980811	Microbios	D016428 D013485 	Complex chitinolytic system of Aspergillus fumigatus.	Native polyacrylamide gels incorporating a glycol chitin substrate were used to detect several chitinolytic enzymes in the culture filtrate and cell surface, wall and mixed membrane fractions of Aspergillus fumigatus during the exponential phase of growth. Much of the cellular chitinase activity did not bind to concanavalin A (Con A) matrix and was heat-sensitive. In contrast, almost all chitinases secreted appeared to be heat-stable glycoproteins. The heavily glycosylated molecules, in a Con A-binding fraction, were the most immunologically-reactive components, as judged by their binding to anti-Aspergillus antibodies, present in the serum of patients with aspergillosis. Most of the cellular chitinases of A. fumigatus mycelium bound to an insoluble chitin matrix while most of the secreted chitinases did not bind to chitin. 
7969135	19941201	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	G1 cyclin degradation: the PEST motif of yeast Cln2 is necessary, but not sufficient, for rapid protein turnover.	The 545-residue Cln2 protein, like the other G1 cyclins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is a very unstable protein. This instability is thought to play a critical role in regulating cell cycle progression. The carboxyl-terminal domains of Cln2 and the other G1 cyclins contain sequences rich in Pro, Glu (and Asp), Ser, and Thr (so-called PEST motifs) that have been postulated to make up the signals that are responsible for the rapid degradation of these and other unstable proteins. To test this hypothesis, the carboxyl-terminal 178 residues of Cln2 were fused to the C terminus of a reporter enzyme, a truncated form of human thymidine kinase (hTK delta 40). The resulting chimeric protein (hTK delta 40-Cln2) retained thymidine kinase activity but was markedly less stable than hTK, hTK delta 40, or an hTK-beta-galactosidase fusion protein, as judged by enzyme assay, immunoblotting with anti-hTK antibodies, pulse-chase analysis of the radiolabeled polypeptides, and ability to support the growth of a thymidylate auxotroph (cdc21 mutant) on thymidine-containing medium. Thus, the presence of the Cln2 PEST domain was sufficient to destabilize a heterologous protein. Furthermore, the half-life of hTK delta 40-Cln2 was similar to that of authentic Cln2, and the rate of degradation of neither protein was detectably enhanced by treatments known to cause G1 arrest, including exposure of MATa haploids to alpha-factor mating pheromone and shifting cdc28ts and cdc34ts mutants to the restrictive temperature. These results suggest that the major signals responsible for Cln2 instability are confined to its C-terminal third. Because hTK delta 40-Cln2 and Cln2 were expressed from heterologous promoters yet their half-lives both in asynchronous cultures and when arrested at various cell cycle stages were always similar, the Cln2 PEST domain contains a signal for rapid protein turnover that is constitutively active and operative throughout the cell cycle. Removal of the 37 codons that encode the most prominent PEST-like segment from either hTK delta 40-Cln2 or Cln2 decreased the turnover rate of the resulting proteins, as expected; however, an hTK delta 40 chimera containing only this 37-residue segment was not detectably destabilized, suggesting that this PEST sequence, when removed from its normal context, is not a self-contained determinant of protein instability. 
9760165	19981006	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Solution structure of the cellulose-binding domain of endoglucanase I from Trichoderma reesei and its interaction with cello-oligosaccharides.	The solution structure of a synthetic 38-residue cellulose-binding domain (CBD) of endoglucanase I from Trichoderma reesei (CBD(EGI)) was determined by two-dimensional 1H-NMR spectroscopy. 100 structures were generated from a total of 599 NOE derived distance restraints and 28 phi and 14 chi dihedral angle restraints. For the final set of 19 selected structures, the rms deviation about the mean structure was 0.83+/-0.26 A for all atoms and 0.50+/-0.22 A for the backbone atoms. The structure of CBD(EGI) was very similar to that of CBD of cellobiohydrolase I from T reesei (CBD(CBHI)). The backbone trace of CBD(EGI) followed closely the irregular triple-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet structure of CBD(CBHI). Moreover, apart from the different side chains of Trp7 (CBD(EGI)) and Tyr5 (CBD(CBHI)), the cellulose-binding face of CBD(EGI) was similar to that of CBD(CBHI) within the precision of the structures. Finally, the interaction between CBD(EGI) and soluble sugars was investigated using cellopentaose and cellohexaose as substrates. Experiments showed that the interactions between CBD(EGI) and cellobiose units of sugars are specific, supporting the previously presented model for the CBD binding to crystalline cellulose. 
16283301	20051112	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Degradation of toxaphene by Bjerkandera sp. strain BOL13 using waste biomass as a cosubstrate.	The white-rot fungus Bjerkandera sp. strain BOL13 was capable of degrading toxaphene when supplied with wood chips, wheat husk or cane molasses as cosubstrates in batch culture experiments. Approximately 85% of toxaphene was removed when wheat husk was the main substrate. The production of lignin peroxidase was only stimulated when wheat husk was present in the liquid medium. Although xylanase was always detected, wheat husk supported the highest xylanase production. A negligible amount of beta-glucosidase and cellulase were found in the batch culture medium. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of toxaphene degradation by white-rot fungi. 
21161227	20101217	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 	Differential proteomic analysis of temperature-induced autolysis in mycelium of Pleurotus tuber-regium.	Autolysis is an important physiological process found in fungal cultivation. However, there is hitherto no report on the autolysis of Pleurotus tuber-regium. We have investigated the enzymes secreted by temperature-induced (40°C as treatment versus 10°C as control) autolysis of the mycelium of P. tuber-regium grown in submerged cultivation. A comparison between the intracellular proteins (inside the mycelium) and the extracellular proteins (in the culture medium) of the treatment and control by proteomic analysis involving 2D PAGE and MALDI-TOF-MS was made. Twenty-two up-regulated protein spots were detected and eight proteins were identified. They included proteasome which participates in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway; β-1,3-glucanosyltransferase and tubulin which are involved in the renewal and repair of cell wall; protease and endoglucanase which promote the natural degradation of cell wall and cytoplasm; 14-3-3 protein which takes part in cell signal transduction; and two putative proteins presumably relate to the autolysis process. These identified proteins suggest partially the metabolic processes of the autolysis in the P. tuber-regium mycelium. 
16447173	20060201	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Interfacing Pichia pastoris cultivation with expanded bed adsorption.	For improved interfacing of the Pichia pastoris fed-batch cultivation process with expanded bed adsorption (EBA) technique, a modified cultivation technique was developed. The modification included the reduction of the medium salt concentration, which was then kept constant by regulating the medium conductivity at low value (about 8 mS/cm) by salt feeding. Before loading, the low conductivity culture broth was diluted only to reduce viscosity, caused by high cell density. The concept was applied to a one-step recovery and purification procedure for a fusion protein composed of a cellulose-binding module (CBM) from Neocallimastix patriciarum cellulase 6A fused to lipase B from Candida antarctica (CALB). The modified cultivation technique resulted in lower cell death and consequently lower concentration of proteases and other contaminating proteins in the culture broth. Flow cytometry analysis showed 1% dead (propidium-stained) cells compared to 3.5% in the reference process. During the whole process of cultivation and recovery, no proteolysis was detected and in the end of the cultivation, the product constituted 87% of the total supernatant protein. The lipase activity in the culture supernatant increased at an almost constant rate up to a value corresponding to 2.2 g/L of CBM-CALB. In the EBA process, no cell-adsorbent interaction was detected but the cell density had to be reduced by a two-times dilution to keep a proper bed expansion. At flow velocity of 400 cm/h, the breakthrough capacity was 12.4 g/L, the product yield 98%, the concentration factor 3.6 times, the purity about 90%, and the productivity 2.1 g/L x h. 
20541547	20100615	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 	Curdlan-mediated regulation of human phagocyte-specific chitotriosidase.	Human phagocyte-specific chitotriosidase is part of innate immunity and shows anti-fungal activity towards chitin-containing fungi. We investigated the effect of stimulation of the C-type lectin receptor dectin-1 by beta-1,3-glucan (curdlan) on chitotriosidase expression and release by human phagocytes. We observed that curdlan triggers chitotriosidase release from human neutrophils. In addition, we show that curdlan impairs chitotriosidase induction in monocytes. Finally, curdlan temporarily induces chitotriosidase in enzyme-expressing monocyte-derived macrophages, followed by reduction of chitotriosidase expression after prolonged stimulation. These data on regulation of phagocyte-specific chitotriosidase following curdlan recognition support an important role of chitotriosidase in the elimination of chitin-containing pathogens. 
24031565	20130914	Braz._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Application of microbial α-amylase in industry - A review.	Amylases are one of the main enzymes used in industry. Such enzymes hydrolyze the starch molecules into polymers composed of glucose units. Amylases have potential application in a wide number of industrial processes such as food, fermentation and pharmaceutical industries. α-Amylases can be obtained from plants, animals and microorganisms. However, enzymes from fungal and bacterial sources have dominated applications in industrial sectors. The production of α-amylase is essential for conversion of starches into oligosaccharides. Starch is an important constituent of the human diet and is a major storage product of many economically important crops such as wheat, rice, maize, tapioca, and potato. Starch-converting enzymes are used in the production of maltodextrin, modified starches, or glucose and fructose syrups. A large number of microbial α-amylases has applications in different industrial sectors such as food, textile, paper and detergent industries. The production of α-amylases has generally been carried out using submerged fermentation, but solid state fermentation systems appear as a promising technology. The properties of each α-amylase such as thermostability, pH profile, pH stability, and Ca-independency are important in the development of fermentation process. This review focuses on the production of bacterial and fungal α-amylases, their distribution, structural-functional aspects, physical and chemical parameters, and the use of these enzymes in industrial applications.  
1388663	19920401	J._Protein_Chem.	D016428 	Stability of fungal alpha-amylase in sodium dodecylsulfate.	Unfolding of a fungal alpha-amylase in aqueous sodium dodecylsulfate (SDS) solution was examined by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). When the alpha-amylase was incubated with 1% SDS at room temperature and subjected to SDS-PAGE, it showed a much higher mobility than expected from the molecular weight. Circular dichroic and gel filtration analyses indicated that the protein is apparently in the native conformation upon incubation with 1% SDS. When the protein was heated in the presence of 1% SDS at 90 degrees C for 10 min, it had a lower mobility in SDS-PAGE and showed characteristics of an unfolded protein by circular dichroism and gel filtration. The melting temperatures of the protein were determined in the absence and presence of SDS by incubating it for 10 min at various temperatures. The melting temperatures were 70, 55, and 49 degrees C in the presence of 0, 1, and 2% SDS, respectively. The observed small shift of the melting temperatures by SDS suggests that the destabilizing action of SDS on the alpha-amylase is weak. However, the unfolding in SDS is not reversible process, since prolonged incubation of the protein with 1% SDS at 50 degrees C gradually increased the amount of unfolded protein. This indicates that the SDS-induced unfolding of the alpha-amylase is a slow process. 
17502271	20070516	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Acetylation of loofa (Luffa cylindrica) sponge as immobilization carrier for bioprocesses involving cellulase.	The feasibility of using loofa sponge for immobilization of cellulase-producing microorganisms was investigated by acetylating loofa sponge. Acetylation was achieved by autoclaving process of loofa sponge immersed in acetic anhydride at various temperatures for various times. The degree of acetylation, as inferred by the weight percentage gain (WPG), was enhanced by increasing both temperature and the duration of acetylation. The acetylation of a piece of loofa sponge in an autoclave at 120 degrees C for 20 min resulted in a WPG of about 8%, which was sufficient to protect the loofa sponge against cellulose degradation. The acetylated loofa sponge prepared under this condition was not decomposed by commercial cellulase and its structure was maintained for more than 720 h during repeated-batch treatments with commercial cellulase. A flocculating yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae IR-2) and a fungus (Trichoderma reesei QM9414) were successfully immobilized in the acetylated loofa sponge. In each case, the percentage of immobilized cells was as high as that obtained using nonacetylated loofa sponge. Acetylation had no adverse effects on cell growth and immobilization of T. reesei QM9414, as well as on cell growth and ethanol production by S. cerevisiae IR-2. T. reesei QM9414 immobilized on an acetylated loofa sponge was successfully used for repeated-batch cellulase production from commercial cellulose powder. Although the acetylated loofa sponge showed a slight weight loss, it was not disintegrated by activated sludge. The results obtained in this study showed that acetylated loofa sponge is suitable as an immobilization carrier for bioprocesses involving cellulase. 
18944759	20081024	Phytopathology	D016428 	Differential Induction of Grapevine Defenses by Two Strains of Botrytis cinerea.	ABSTRACT Even though Botrytis cinerea, the causal agent of gray mold, is a highly variable fungus with strains displaying very different degrees of virulence toward one given host plant species, no study has yet shown any correlation between the lack of aggressiveness of one given strain and its ability to stimulate a defense response from its host. Strains of B. cinerea collected from different host plant species were screened for their pathogenicity on grapevine to select two strains with similar morphological characteristics but different levels of virulence. In grapevine leaves, the less aggressive strain, T4, enhanced the accumulation of many defense products including secondary metabolites and the pathogenesis-related proteins, chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase. Interestingly, secondary metabolites were formed in cells around a small group of dead cells. When compared with T4, the more aggressive strain, T8, had larger necrotic spots, no secondary metabolite biosynthesis, and accumulations of chitinases and beta-1,3-glucanases that were more delayed, yet only slightly weaker. The culture fluids of both strains mimicked the differential effect of each isolate in stimulating chitinase activity when infiltrated into grapevine leaves. 
11148206	20010120	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Cohesin-dockerin interaction in cellulosome assembly: a single hydroxyl group of a dockerin domain distinguishes between nonrecognition and high affinity recognition.	The assembly of enzyme components into the cellulosome complex is dictated by the cohesin-dockerin interaction. In a recent article (Mechaly, A., Yaron, S., Lamed, R., Fierobe, H.-P., Belaich, A., Belaich, J.-P., Shoham, Y., and Bayer, E. A. (2000) Proteins 39, 170-177), we provided experimental evidence that four previously predicted dockerin residues play a decisive role in the specificity of this high affinity interaction, although additional residues were also implicated. In the present communication, we examine further the contributing factors for the recognition of a dockerin by a cohesin domain between the respective cellulosomal systems of Clostridium thermocellum and Clostridium cellulolyticum. In this context, the four confirmed residues were analyzed for their individual effect on selectivity. In addition, other dockerin residues were discerned that could conceivably contribute to the interaction, and the suspected residues were similarly modified by site-directed mutagenesis. The results indicate that mutation of a single residue from threonine to leucine at a given position of the C. thermocellum dockerin differentiates between its nonrecognition and high affinity recognition (K(a) approximately 10(9) m(-1)) by a cohesin from C. cellulolyticum. This suggests that the presence or absence of a single decisive hydroxyl group is critical to the observed biorecognition. This study further implicates additional residues as secondary determinants in the specificity of interaction, because interconversion of selected residues reduced intraspecies self-recognition by at least three orders of magnitude. Nevertheless, as the latter mutageneses served to reduce but not annul the cohesin-dockerin interaction within this species, it follows that other subtle alterations play a comparatively minor role in the recognition between these two modules. 
9309173	19970701	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Production of the homologous pectin lyase B protein in six genetically defined protease-deficient Aspergillus niger mutant strains.	An expression cassette has been transformed into six protease-deficient (prt) mutant strains of Aspergillus niger. Transformants were tested for improved production of the proteolytically susceptible PELB tester protein. In four complementation groups (prtA, B, D and F) distinct improvement of PELB yield was observed. These in vivo experiments in single prt mutants confirmed earlier in vitro PELB degradation data and demonstrated how the use of protease-deficient mutants can significantly improve protein production in A. niger. The strong effects of several prt alleles on the stability of the PELB tester protein have initiated a more detailed genetical and molecular characterization of the prt mutations. Mapping of the cloned protease genes pepA [I], B [II], C [IV], D [I], E [IV] and F [IV] indicated that none of the prt mutations represent alleles of the presently cloned protease (pep) genes from A. niger. Analysis of the expression of the pep genes in prt strains demonstrated that the strongly reduced protease activities observed in several prt mutants are not reflected by reduced transcription levels for a number of extracellular proteases. These results indicate that the mode of action of the prt genes constitute an interesting group of new genetic functions which severely affect protease production, and as such improve protein production, in A. niger. 
10441450	19990812	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	HAP-Like CCAAT-binding complexes in filamentous fungi: implications for biotechnology.	Regulatory CCAAT boxes are found frequently in eukaryotic promoter regions. They are bound by different CCAAT-binding factors. Until now, a single CCAAT-binding complex has been reported in fungi. It is also found in higher eukaryotes and is highly conserved among eukaryotic organisms. This multimeric protein complex is designated HAP, AnCF, CBF, or NF-Y. The complex consists of at least three subunits. In fungi, only the HAP complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae had been known for a long time. The recent cloning of genes encoding the components of the corresponding complex (AnCF/PENR1) of Aspergillus nidulans and characterization of CCAAT-regulated genes in A. nidulans, as well as other filamentous fungi, led to a deeper insight into the role of this transcription complex, in particular in aerobically growing fungi. An overview of the function of HAP-like complexes in gene regulation in filamentous fungi is presented. Some of the genes that have been found to be regulated by HAP-like complexes encode enzymes of biotechnological interest, like taka-amylase, xylanases, cellobiohydrolase, and penicillin biosynthesis enzymes. The importance of HAP-like complexes in controlling the expression of biotechnologically important genes is discussed. 
20308540	20100324	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptome and metabolome profiling of field-grown transgenic barley lack induced differences but show cultivar-specific variances.	The aim of the present study was to assess possible adverse effects of transgene expression in leaves of field-grown barley relative to the influence of genetic background and the effect of plant interaction with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. We conducted transcript profiling, metabolome profiling, and metabolic fingerprinting of wild-type accessions and barley transgenics with seed-specific expression of (1,3-1, 4)-beta-glucanase (GluB) in Baronesse (B) as well as of transgenics in Golden Promise (GP) background with ubiquitous expression of codon-optimized Trichoderma harzianum endochitinase (ChGP). We found more than 1,600 differential transcripts between varieties GP and B, with defense genes being strongly overrepresented in B, indicating a divergent response to subclinical pathogen challenge in the field. In contrast, no statistically significant differences between ChGP and GP could be detected based on transcriptome or metabolome analysis, although 22 genes and 4 metabolites were differentially abundant when comparing GluB and B, leading to the distinction of these two genotypes in principle component analysis. The coregulation of most of these genes in GluB and GP, as well as simple sequence repeat-marker analysis, suggests that the distinctive alleles in GluB are inherited from GP. Thus, the effect of the two investigated transgenes on the global transcript profile is substantially lower than the effect of a minor number of alleles that differ as a consequence of crop breeding. Exposing roots to the spores of the mycorrhizal Glomus sp. had little effect on the leaf transcriptome, but central leaf metabolism was consistently altered in all genotypes. 
15792585	20050329	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a cellulase-free, neutral xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus CBS 288.54 and its biobleaching effect on wheat straw pulp.	A xylanase purified from the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus CBS 288.54 was characterized and its potential application in wheat straw pulp biobleaching was evaluated. Xylanase was purified 33.6-fold to homogeneity with a recovery yield of 21.5%. It appeared as a single protein band on SDS-PAGE gel with a molecular mass of approx. 26.2 kDa. The purified xylanase had a neutral optimum pH ranging from pH 7.0 to pH 7.5, and it was also stable over pH 6.5-10.0. The optimal temperature of the xylanase was 70-75 degrees C and it was stable up to 65 degrees C. The purified xylanase was found to be not glycosylated. The xylanase was highly specific towards xylan, but did not exhibit other enzyme activity. Apparent Km values of the xylanase for birchwood, beechwood, soluble oat-spelt and insoluble oat-spelt xylans were 4.0, 4.7, 2.0 and 23.4 mg ml-1, respectively. The potential application of the xylanase was further evaluated in biobleaching of wheat straw pulp. The brightness of bleached pulps from the xylanase pretreated wheat straw pulp was 1.8-7.79% ISO higher than that of the control, and showed slightly lower tensile index and breaking length than the control. Although chlorine consumption was reduced by 28.3% during bleaching, the xylanase pretreated pulp (15 U g-1 pulp) still maintained its brightness at the control level. Besides, pretreatment of pulp with the xylanase was also effective at an alkaline pH as high as pH 10.0. 
20479981	20100519	Mar_Drugs	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Bioprocessing data for the production of marine enzymes.	This review is a synopsis of different bioprocess engineering approaches adopted for the production of marine enzymes. Three major modes of operation: batch, fed-batch and continuous have been used for production of enzymes (such as protease, chitinase, agarase, peroxidase) mainly from marine bacteria and fungi on a laboratory bioreactor and pilot plant scales. Submerged, immobilized and solid-state processes in batch mode were widely employed. The fed-batch process was also applied in several bioprocesses. Continuous processes with suspended cells as well as with immobilized cells have been used. Investigations in shake flasks were conducted with the prospect of large-scale processing in reactors. 
11199491	20010224	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Sequential synthesis and secretion of pectinases by Penicillium frequentans.	Penicillium frequentans synthesized eleven polygalacturonases and three pectinesterases when grown in the presence of pectin, sodium polypectate or monogalacturonic acid. When glucose was the sole carbohydrate source in the medium two of these polygalacturonases and one pectinesterase were produced. The enzymes produced under any of these conditions degraded pectic substrates to monogalacturonic acid, suggesting that this monosaccharide or its metabolites should induce the pectinolytic complex. All pectinesterases and most of the extracellular polygalacturonases were synthesized after the 2nd hour of incubation. The pectinases produced by Penicillium frequentans were not secreted at the same time but after 5 hours of incubation all of them could be detected outside the cell those detected only inside the cell were probably membrane-associated or unglycosylated forms of the extracellular pectinases. 
15125965	20040506	Bioorg._Med._Chem._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Synergetic inhibition of genistein and D-glucose on alpha-glucosidase.	Synergetic inhibitory effect of genistein (I2) and D-glucose (I1) on alpha-glucosidase has been studied with kinetics method. It was concluded that the inhibitory effect was much greater when I2 and I1 were both added to the reactant solution simultaneously than that they were added, respectively, which suggesting the inhibitors bind to the different sites of alpha-glucosidase at the same time, and demonstrating synergetic inhibition. 
2055483	19910401	Gene	D016428 	Co-expression of a Saccharomyces diastaticus glucoamylase-encoding gene and a Bacillus amyloliquefaciens alpha-amylase-encoding gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A glucoamylase-encoding gene (STA2) from Saccharomyces diastaticus and an alpha-amylase-encoding gene (AMY) from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens were cloned separately into a yeast-integrating shuttle vector (YIp5), generating recombinant plasmids pSP1 and pSP2, respectively. The STA2 and AMY genes were jointly cloned into YIp5, generating plasmid pSP3. Subsequently, the dominant selectable marker APH1, encoding resistance to Geneticin G418 (GtR), was cloned into pSP3, resulting in pSP4. For enhanced expression of GtR, the APH1 gene was fused to the GAL10 promoter and terminated by the URA3 terminator, resulting in pSP5. Plasmid pSP5 was converted to a circular minichromosome (pSP6) by the addition of the ARS1 and CEN4 sequences. Laboratory strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae transformed with plasmids pSP1 through pSP6, stably produced and secreted glucoamylase and/or alpha-amylase. Brewers' and distillers' yeast transformed with pSP6 were also capable of secreting amylolytic enzymes. Yeast transformants containing pSP1, pSP2 and pSP3 assimilated soluble starch with an efficiency of 69%, 84% and 93%, respectively. The major starch hydrolysis products produced by crude amylolytic enzymes found in the culture broths of the pSP1-, pSP2- and pSP3-containing transformants, were glucose, glucose and maltose (1:1), and glucose and maltose (3:1), respectively. These results confirmed that co-expression of the STA2 and AMY genes synergistically enhanced starch degradation. 
19840119	20091021	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Recovery of endo-polygalacturonase activity in wine yeast and its effect on wine aroma.	The PGU1 gene, which encodes an endo-polygalacturonase, is present in most strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In some strains that lack activity, the PGU1 gene was replaced by a partial transposon. In an attempt to restore enzyme activity, the PGU1 gene was successfully reintroduced into its native position in five of these strains. Polygalacturonase activity was recovered in strains UCLMS-1, -3 and -4, while Collection Cépage Cabernet and L2226 did not show any transcription of the gene after integration. Small-scale fermentations, under conditions mimicking those of winemaking, were carried out with the recombinant strains to determine the effect of an endo-polygalacturonase-producing wine strain on the wine aroma. Some statistically significant tendencies were observed for the production of certain compounds whose concentrations were higher in the wine made from the recombinant strains than that from their respective wild types. These differences might therefore induce a slight change in the aroma profile of the wines. Moreover, recovery of endo-polygalacturonase activity in certain wine strains did, however, provide an insight into the regulation of PGU1 in these strains. 
7628692	19950701	Genes_Dev.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The protein kinase C-activated MAP kinase pathway of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mediates a novel aspect of the heat shock response.	The PKC1 gene of budding yeast encodes a homolog of the alpha, beta, and gamma isoforms of mammalian PKC that is proposed to regulate a MAPK-activation pathway. Mutants in this pathway undergo cell lysis resulting from a deficiency in cell wall construction when they attempt to grow at elevated temperatures. We show that the PKC1-regulated pathway is important for induced thermotolerance and that the MPK1 protein kinase (the MAPK of this pathway) is strongly activated by mild heat shock. This activation is sustained during growth at high temperature and is dependent on the function of pathway components proposed to function upstream of MPK1, including PKC1. Expression of genes under the control of known heat shock-inducible promoter elements (HSEs and STREs) was not compromised in PKC1 pathway mutants, indicating that this pathway mediates a novel aspect of the yeast heat shock response. We propose that the heat-induced signal for pathway activation is generated in response to weakness in the cell wall created during growth under thermal stress, perhaps as a result of increased membrane fluidity. Evidence is presented that the mechanism by which the cell detects this weakness is by measuring stretch of the plasma membrane. 
2515680	19890101	Zentralbl._Mikrobiol.	D016428 	Effect of chemicals on fungal alpha-amylase activity.	The effect of 8 growth regulators at concentrations of 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 ppm on the activity of fungal (Aspergillus flavus var. columnaris) alpha-amylase was studied. Indol acetic acid (IAA) and naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) inhibited alpha-amylase activity by 2% and 7% at 1,000 ppm. The other 6 growth regulators, indol butyric acid (IBA), gibberellic acid, cumarin, cycocel (CCC), atonik-G and kylar, did not inhibit but stimulated alpha-amylase activity (0 to 9%) at 1,000 ppm. All growth regulators studied inhibited alpha-amylase activity at 5,000 and 10,000 ppm concentration except kylar. The effect of organic acids and formaldehyde at 0.01, 0.005, and 0.001 M was studied. Acetic acid stimulated alpha-amylase at all concentrations, but formic acid, oxalic acid, lactic acid and citric acid inhibited alpha-amylase activity by 91, 100, 100 and 79%, respectively, at a concentration of 0.01 M, while by 31, 100, 15 and 20%, respectively, at 0.005 M. Formaldehyde induced 7, 3 and 2% inhibition at 0.01, 0.005 and 0.001 M, respectively. At 0.01 M either sorbitol or fructose inhibited alpha-amylase by 8%, Maltose 7%, sucrose 6%, phenol, glucose and galactose each by 5%, ethanol, glycerol, arabinose and sodium benzoate each by 4%, isopropanol and mannitol 1%, but methanol and ammonium citrate dibasic did not inhibit alpha-amylase. The results indicate that CuCl2, SnCl2, AgNO3 and Fe2(SO4)3 were the strongest inhibitors, followed by Cd(C2H3O2), HgCl2, Na2-EDTA, Na2HPO4, and CaCl2 in decreasing order. NaCl, NaBr and Mn SO4 did not inhibit alpha-amylase at concentrations from 10 mM to 0.01 mM. 
1628837	19920701	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Secretion of a Cryptococcus albidus xylanase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The xylanase(XLN)-encoding gene(XLN) of Cryptococcus albidus and its cDNA were each inserted into the vector, pVT100, for expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Expression was under the control of either their own promoter or the gene encoding alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH1) promoter. Yeast transformed with plasmids containing the cDNA of the structural XLN gene and the XLN promoter produced active extracellular XLN when grown with galactose as carbon source. However, with glucose as carbon source, XLN was repressed. Using the ADH1 promoter, which is stimulated by glucose, XLN was secreted into the culture medium. In both cases, the secreted 48-kDa enzyme corresponded to the native XLN produced by C. albidus. With the plasmid bearing the genomic XLN gene, there was transcription, but the seven introns interrupting XLN were not spliced out by S. cerevisiae and no enzyme was produced. 
22743589	20120630	Molecules	D016428 D013485 	Biochemical characterization of an in-house Coccidioides antigen: perspectives for the immunodiagnosis of coccidioidomycosis.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the reactivity of an in-house antigen, extracted from a strain of C. posadasii isolated in northeastern Brazil, by radial immunodiffusion and Western blotting, as well as to establish its biochemical characterization. The protein antigen was initially extracted with the use of solid ammonium sulfate and characterized by 1-D electrophoresis. Subsequently, it was tested by means of double radial immunodiffusion and Western blotting. A positive reaction was observed against the antigen by both immunodiagnostic techniques tested on sera from patients suffering from coccidioidomycosis. Besides this, two immunoreactive protein bands were observed and were revealed to be a β-glucosidase and a glutamine synthetase after sequencing of the respective N-terminal regions. Our in-house Coccidioides antigen can be promising as a quick and low-cost diagnostic tool without the risk of direct manipulation of the microorganism. 
9535889	19980516	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Structural analyses and dynamics of soluble and cell wall-bound phenolics in a broad spectrum resistance to the powdery mildew fungus in barley.	High pressure liquid chromatography profiles of barley leaf epidermal soluble and cell wall-bound phenolics were analyzed in response to challenge with the fungal pathogen Erysiphe graminis f. sp. hordei. Only one soluble phenolic was found to accumulate differentially in a broad spectrum resistance reaction controlled by mlo resistance alleles in comparison to susceptible near isogenic Mlo lines. Structural analysis identified this compound as a novel phenolic conjugate, p-coumaroyl-hydroxyagmatine (p-CHA). p-CHA but not the nonhydroxylated derivative p-coumaroylagmatine exhibited antifungal activity both in vitro and in vivo. The accumulation of p-CHA in epidermal tissue correlated tightly with fungal penetration attempts of attacked host cells. Furthermore, upon penetration, epidermal cell wall-bound phenolics became resistant to saponification at sites of attempted fungal ingress (papilla), indicating a change in, or the addition of, different chemical bonding types. The switch in saponification sensitivity occurred at least 2 h earlier in the mlo-incompatible than in the Mlo-compatible interaction. Our results suggest that p-CHA and the speed of papillae compaction play important roles in non-race-specific powdery mildew defense. 
19283126	20090314	J._Nematol.	D016428 	A Collagenolytic Fungus, Cunninghamella elegans, for Biological Control of Plant-parasitic Nematodes.	The root-galling index of tomatoes inoculated with Meloidogyne javanica was decreased 70% when collagen was used as a soil amendment (0.1% w/w) and 90% when the amendment was supplemented with the collagenolytic fungus Cunninghamella elegans. The root-galling index was reduced 80% when the fungus was homogenized in collagen culture medium and added to soil without collagen supplement. Culture filtrates of the fungus C. elegans, grown on collagen as a single source of carbon and nitrogen, immobilized M. javanica second-stage juveniles and inhibited egg hatch. Root galling was reduced when tomato plants were inoculated with filtrate-treated juveniles. Culture filtrates reduced the motility of Rotylenchulus reniformis and Xiphinema index, but they had less effect on Anguina tritici and almost no effect on Ditylenchus dipsaci. Cunninghamella elegans had collagenolytic, elastolytic, keratinolytic, and nonspecific proteolytic activities when grown on collagen media, but only chitinolytic activity when grown on chitin media. 
1317007	19920601	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013487 	Overproduction of the GAL1 or GAL3 protein causes galactose-independent activation of the GAL4 protein: evidence for a new model of induction for the yeast GAL/MEL regulon.	The transcriptional activation function of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae GAL4 protein is modulated by the GAL80 and GAL3 proteins. In the absence of galactose, GAL80 inhibits the function of GAL4, presumably by direct binding to the GAL4 protein. The presence of galactose triggers the relief of the GAL80 block. The key to this relief is the GAL3 protein. How GAL3 and galactose activate GAL4 is not understood, but the long-standing notion has been that a galactose derivative formed by catalytic activity of GAL3 is the inducer that interacts with GAL80 or the GAL80-GAL4 complex. Here we report that overproduction of the GAL3 protein causes constitutive expression of GAL/MEL genes in the absence of exogenous galactose. Overproduction of the GAL1 protein (galactokinase) also causes constitutivity, consistent with the observations that GAL1 is strikingly similar in amino acid sequence to GAL3 and has GAL3-like induction activity. Cells lacking the GAL10-encoded UDP-galactose-UDP-glucose epimerase retained the constitutivity response to overproduction of GAL3, making it unlikely that constitutivity is due to endogenously produced galactose. A galactose-independent mechanism of constitutivity is further indicated by the inducing properties of two newly created galactokinaseless alleles of GAL1. On the basis of these data, we propose a new model for galactose-induced activation of the GAL4 protein. This model invokes galactose-activation of the GAL3 and GAL1 proteins which in turn elicit an alteration of the GAL80-GAL4 complex to activate GAL4. This model is consistent with all the known features of the system and has important implications for manipulating GAL4-dependent transcriptional activation in vitro. 
21124060	20101203	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Construction of amylolytic industrial brewing yeast strain with high glutathione content for manufacturing beer with improved anti-staling capability and flavor.	Glutathione in beer works as the main antioxidant compounds which correlates with beer flavor stability. High residual sugars in beer contribute to major non-volatile components which correlate to high caloric content. In this work, Saccharomyces cerevisiae GSH1 gene encoding glutamylcysteine synthetase and Scharomycopsis fibuligera ALP1 gene encoding alpha-amylase were co-expressed in industrial brewing yeast strain Y31 targeting at alpha-acetolactate synthase (AHAS) gene (ILV2) and alcohol dehydrogenase gene (ADH2), and new recombinant strain TY3 was constructed. The glutathione content from the fermentation broth of TY3 increased to 43.83 mg/l compared to 33.34 mg/l from Y31. The recombinant strain showed high alpha-amylase activity and utilized more than 46% of starch after 5 days growing on starch as sole carbon source. European Brewery Convention tube fermentation tests comparing the fermentation broth of TY3 and Y31 showed that the flavor stability index increased to 1.3 fold and residual sugar concentration were reduced by 76.8%, respectively. Due to the interruption of ILV2 gene and ADH2 gene, the amounts of off-flavor compounds diacetyl and acetaldehyde were reduced by 56.93% and 31.25%, comparing with the amounts of these from Y31 fermentation broth. In addition, as no drug-resistance genes were introduced to new recombinant strain, consequently, it should be more suitable for use in beer industry because of its better flavor stability and other beneficial characteristics. 
16405691	20060113	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	The dynamics of major fibrolytic microbes and enzyme activity in the rumen in response to short- and long-term feeding of Sapindus rarak saponins.	To investigate the short- and long-term effects of an extract of Sapindus rarak saponins (SE) on the rumen fibrolytic enzyme activity and the major fibrolytic micro-organisms. Two feeding trials were conducted. In the short-term trial, four fistulated goats were fed a basal diet containing sugar cane tops and wheat pollard (65:35, w/w) and were supplemented for 7 days with SE at a level of 0.6 g kg(-1) body weight. Rumen liquor was taken before, during and after SE feeding. In the long-term trial, 28 sheep were fed the same basal diet as the goats and were supplemented for 105 days with 0.24, 0.48 and 0.72 g kg(-1) body mass of the extract. Rumen liquor was taken on days 98 and 100. Protozoal numbers were counted under the microscope. Cell wall degradation was determined by enzyme assays and the major fibrolytic micro-organisms were quantified by dot blot hybridization. Sapindus extract significantly depressed rumen xylanase activity in both trials and carboxymethylcellulase activity in the long-term trial (P < 0.01). Fibrobacter sp. were not affected by the SE in both trials, while ruminococci and the anaerobic fungi showed a short-term response to the application of saponins. Protozoal counts were decreased only in the long-term trial with sheep. These data suggest that there is an adaptation of Ruminococcus albus, Ruminococcus flavefaciens and Chytridiomycetes (fungi) to saponin when fed over a long period. The fact that no correlation between the cell wall degrading enzyme activities and the cell wall degrading micro-organisms was observed suggests that the organisms tracked in this experiment are not the only key players in ruminal cell wall degradation. Sapindus rarak saponins partially defaunate the rumen flora. Their negative effect on cell wall degradation, however, is not related to rumen organisms currently recognized as the major cell wall degrading species. The adaptation of microbes in the long-term feeding experiment suggests that the results from short-term trial on the ruminal microbial community have to be interpreted carefully. 
21701899	20110625	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Efficient expression of a Paenibacillus barcinonensis endoglucanase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The endoglucanase coded by celA (GenBank Access No. Y12512) from Paenibacillus barcinonensis, an enzyme with good characteristics for application on paper manufacture from agricultural fibers, was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by using different domains of the cell wall protein Pir4 as translational fusion partners, to achieve either secretion or cell wall retention of the recombinant enzyme. Given the presence of five potential N-glycosylation sites in the amino acid sequence coded by celA, the effect of glycosylation on the enzymatic activity of the recombinant enzyme was investigated by expressing the recombinant fusion proteins in both, standard and glycosylation-deficient strains of S. cerevisiae. Correct targeting of the recombinant fusion proteins was confirmed by Western immunoblot using Pir-specific antibodies, while enzymatic activity on carboxymethyl cellulose was demonstrated on plate assays, zymographic analysis and colorimetric assays. Hyperglycosylation of the enzyme when expressed in the standard strain of S. cerevisiae did not affect activity, and values of 1.2 U/ml were obtained in growth medium supernatants in ordinary batch cultures after 24 h. These values compare quite favorably with those described for other recombinant endoglucanases expressed in S. cerevisiae. This is one of the few reports describing the expression of Bacillus cellulases in S. cerevisiae, since yeast expressed recombinant cellulases have been mostly of fungal origin. It is also the first report of the yeast expression of this particular endoglucanase. 
23421182	20130221	J_Nanosci_Nanotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Anti-fungi activities of Bacillus thuringiensis H3 chitinase and immobilized chitinase particles and their effects to rice seedling defensive enzymes.	The chitinase producing bacterium H3 strain was screened from nature with the selective medium and was identified as Bacillus thuringiensis. The purpose of this investigation is to study the antifungi activity of Bacillus thuringiensis H3 chitinase and its immobilized particles, and the effects on growth of rice seedlings and activities of defensive enzymes. The rice seedlings qualities and several defense enzymes activity were measured after rice seedlings were treated by free chitinase and immobilized chitinase particles. The results show that the height and dry weight of the rice considerably increased in comparison with the control. Bacillus thuringiensis H3 chitinase and it's immobilized particles significantly inhibit several pathogenic fungi, and the anti-fungi rates of immobilized chitinase particles on Pyricularia grisea, Thantephorus cucumris, Fusarium vasinfectum, Fusarium gramineum, Fusarium oxysporum are 72.2%, 62.6%, 44.6%, 50.0%, 55.8%, respectively. Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and peroxidase (POD) activities of the rice seedling were significantly increased when it was treated by free chitinase and immobilized chitinase particles. From the results it could be concluded that Bacillus thuringiensis H3 free chitinase and immobilized chitinase particles can inhibit several pathogenic fungi and induce rice seedlings defense enzymes activity changes. 
8464862	19930401	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 	Bioconversion of chitin to chitosan: purification and characterization of chitin deacetylase from Mucor rouxii.	Chitin deacetylase, the enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of acetamido groups of N-acetylglucosamine in chitin, has been purified to homogeneity from mycelial extracts of the fungus Mucor rouxii and further characterized. The enzyme exhibits a low pI (approximately 3). Its apparent molecular mass was determined to be approximately 75 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and approximately 80 kDa by size-exclusion chromatography, suggesting that the enzyme exists as a monomer. Carbohydrate analysis of purified chitin deacetylase revealed that the enzyme is a high-mannose glycoprotein and that its carbohydrate content is approximately 30% by weight. Chitin deacetylase is active on several chitinous substrates and chitin derivatives. The enzyme requires at least four N-acetylglucosamine residues (chitotetraose) for catalysis, and it is inhibited by carboxylic acids, particularly acetic acid. When glycol chitin (a water-soluble chitin derivative) was used as substrate, the optimum temperature for enzyme activity was determined to be approximately 50 degrees C and the optimum pH was approximately 4.5. 
3013721	19860601	Genetics	D016428 D013487 	Genetic and molecular analysis of the GAL3 gene in the expression of the galactose/melibiose regulon of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	During the galactose adaptation period of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain bearing a naturally occurring gal3 allele, we found a longer induction lag and slower rate of accumulation of GAL10 and MEL1 RNAs compared to wild-type strains. A strain of genotype gal3 gal1 gal7 is noninducible for MEL1 gene expression, but this expression block is bypassed by overexpression of the GAL4 gene or by deletion of the GAL80 gene, either of which causes a constitutive phenotype. An otherwise wild-type strain that bears a chromosomal gal3 gene disruption mutation does not produce wild-type GAL3 RNA and exhibits induction comparable to a strain bearing the naturally occurring gal3. Based on this array of results, we conclude that the GAL3 gene product executes its function at a point before GAL4 mediated transcription of the GAL1-10-7 and MEL1 genes. Thus, the data are consistent with the previously advanced hypothesis that the GAL3 gene product functions to synthesize the inducer or coinducer molecule. In experiments in which the presence of either the plasmid-carried cloned GAL3 gene or the plasmid-carried cloned GAL1-10-7 genes allows MEL1 induction of a gal3 gal1 gal7 cell, we find that loss of the plasmid results in the shutoff of MEL1 expression even when galactose is continuously present. Either GAL3 function or GAL1-10-7 functions are therefore required for both the initiation and the maintenance of the induced state. Since the strains bearing either the naturally occurring gal3 allele or the gal3 disruption (null) allele do induce, the plasmid loss experiments indicate the existence of two completely independent induction initiation-maintenance pathways, one requiring GAL3 function, the other requiring GAL1-10-7 function. Finally, Northern blot analysis reveals two major GAL3 transcripts that differ in size by approximately 500 nucleotides. 
23729873	20130605	Indian_J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Isolation and Characterization of Trichoderma spp. for Antagonistic Activity Against Root Rot and Foliar Pathogens.	Trichoderma, soil-borne filamentous fungi, are capable of parasitising several plant pathogenic fungi. Twelve isolates of Trichoderma spp. isolated from different locations of South Andaman were characterized for their cultural, morphological and antagonistic activity against soil borne and foliar borne pathogens. The sequencing of these isolates showed seven different species. The isolates revealed differential reaction patterns against the test pathogens viz., Sclerotium rolfsii, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides and C. capsici. However, the isolates, TND1, TWN1, TWC1, TGD1 and TSD1 were most effective in percentage inhibition of mycelial growth of test pathogens. Significant chitinase and β-1,3-glucanase activities of all Trichoderma isolates has been recorded in growth medium. T. viride was found with highest chitinase whereas T. harzianum was recorded with highest β-1,3-glucanase activities. 
20943535	20101015	Mycologia	D016428 D013485 	Fungal and algal gene expression in early developmental stages of lichen-symbiosis.	How plants and microbes recognize each other and interact to form long-lasting relationships remains one of the central questions in cellular communication. The symbiosis between the filamentous fungus Cladonia grayi and the single-celled green alga Asterochloris sp. was used to determine fungal and algal genes upregulated in vitro in early lichen development. cDNA libraries of upregulated genes were created with suppression subtractive hybridization in the first two stages of lichen development. Quantitative PCR subsequently was used to verify the expression level of 41 and 33 candidate fungal and algal genes respectively. Induced fungal genes showed significant matches to genes putatively encoding proteins involved in self and non-self recognition, lipid metabolism, and negative regulation of glucose repressible genes, as well as to a putative d-arabitol reductase and two dioxygenases. Upregulated algal genes included a chitinase-like protein, an amino acid metabolism protein, a dynein-related protein and a protein arginine methyltransferase. These results also provided the first evidence that extracellular communication without cellular contact can occur between lichen symbionts. Many genes showing slight variation in expression appear to direct the development of the lichen symbiosis. The results of this study highlight future avenues of investigation into the molecular biology of lichen symbiosis. 
21156059	20101216	BMC_Plant_Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Trichoderma viride cellulase induces resistance to the antibiotic pore-forming peptide alamethicin associated with changes in the plasma membrane lipid composition of tobacco BY-2 cells.	Alamethicin is a membrane-active peptide isolated from the beneficial root-colonising fungus Trichoderma viride. This peptide can insert into membranes to form voltage-dependent pores. We have previously shown that alamethicin efficiently permeabilises the plasma membrane, mitochondria and plastids of cultured plant cells. In the present investigation, tobacco cells (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv Bright Yellow-2) were pre-treated with elicitors of defence responses to study whether this would affect permeabilisation. Oxygen consumption experiments showed that added cellulase, already upon a limited cell wall digestion, induced a cellular resistance to alamethicin permeabilisation. This effect could not be elicited by xylanase or bacterial elicitors such as flg22 or elf18. The induction of alamethicin resistance was independent of novel protein synthesis. Also, the permeabilisation was unaffected by the membrane-depolarising agent FCCP. As judged by lipid analyses, isolated plasma membranes from cellulase-pretreated tobacco cells contained less negatively charged phospholipids (PS and PI), yet higher ratios of membrane lipid fatty acid to sterol and to protein, as compared to control membranes. We suggest that altered membrane lipid composition as induced by cellulase activity may render the cells resistant to alamethicin. This induced resistance could reflect a natural process where the plant cells alter their sensitivity to membrane pore-forming agents secreted by Trichoderma spp. to attack other microorganisms, and thus adding to the beneficial effect that Trichoderma has for plant root growth. Furthermore, our data extends previous reports on artificial membranes on the importance of lipid packing and charge for alamethicin permeabilisation to in vivo conditions. 
15046592	20040330	Biochem._Soc._Trans.	D016428 D013485 	Recombinant enzymes from thermophilic micro-organisms expressed in fungal hosts.	Cost-effective production of enzymes for industrial processes makes the appropriate selection of the host/vector expression system critical. We have tested two fungal systems for the bulk production of enzymes from thermophiles. The yeast Kluyveromyces lactis has been developed as a secretion host employing expression vectors based on the 2u-like plasmid pKD1 of Kluyveromyces drosophilarium. Our second system involves the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. Signal and protein fusion vectors have been constructed using the strong cellobiohydrolase 1 ( cbh1 ) promoter and recombinant plasmid DNAs introduced into various high-secreting T. reesei strains using biolistic particle delivery. In some cases (e.g. the xynB gene of Dictyoglomus thermophilum) we have reconstructed the genes according to Trichoderma codon preferences and demonstrated a dramatic increase in the production of the enzymes. The heterologous XynB enzyme is glycosylated differently in different Trichoderma strains. A proteomics approach has been taken to identify strongly expressed proteins produced by T. reesei under various cultivation conditions in order to identify condition-specific promoters driving the production of these proteins. Analyses indicated that HEX1, the major protein of the fungal Woronin body, is a dominant protein under both cellulase-inducing and -repressing conditions. The hex1 gene together with its promoter and terminator sequences has been isolated and the promoter function studied relative to cultivation time and medium. 
12182334	20020817	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	pH regulates endoglucanase expression and virulence of Alternaria alternata in persimmon fruit.	The phytopathogenic fungus Alternaria alternata produces one endo-1,4-beta-glucanase, AaK1, which is an important factor in disease development in persimmon fruit. During growth of A. alternata in media containing acidified yeast extract or cell walls from persimmon fruit, the fungus secreted ammonia and raised the medium pH. A rise in media pH from 3.8 to 6.0 in the presence of cell walls induced the expression of AaK1, whereas a glucose-induced decline in pH to 2.5 repressed transcription and enzymatic production. Treatments with buffered solutions at pH 6.0 during growth of A. alternata in the presence of glucose derepressed AaK1 expression and endo-1,4-beta-glucanase production and enhanced decay development on the fruit. The results suggest that conditions affecting environmental pH modulate gene expression of AaK1 and virulence of A. alternata in persimmon fruit 
19001750	20081113	Nihon_Ishinkin_Gakkai_Zasshi	D004740 D016428 D016454 	[Biosynthetic pathway of GPI-anchored cell wall mannoproteins in yeast as a potential target for anti-fungal and anti-cancer drugs].	Glycosylphosphatidyl-inositol (GPI) -anchored mannoproteins are one of the major cell wall components of eukaryotic microorganisms, including yeast and fungi. Some GPI-anchored proteins are localized at the plasma membrane, but others are processed at the plasma membrane and are covalently linked to beta-1, 6-glucan of the cell wall through the GPI portion. The genes and enzymes responsible for their biosynthesis and cell wall assembly are potential targets of anti-fungal reagents. We identified GWT1 as a new anti-fungal drug candidate target and elucidated its function as being involved in the acylation of the inositol ring. We also found a new function of GPI7 , which is involved in transfer of ethanolamine phosphate to Man2 of GPI. Our results indicate that the localization of GPI-anchored endoglucanase Egt2p is displaced from the septal region to the cell cortex at the restrictive temperature in gpi7 mutant cells, suggesting that GPI7 is involved in the separation of mother and daughter cells and its defective phenotype is a good marker to select a new inhibitor of Gpi7 function. We have also reported that PER1 is involved in lipid remodeling of GPI-anchored proteins, indicating that Per1p has a GPI-phospholipase A2 activity to eliminate the unsaturated fatty acyl chain at the sn-2 position of PI moiety. We further found that human PERLD1 , which is now known as an oncogene, is a functional homologue of yeast PER1 , indicating that this is a potential target for new anti-cancer drugs. 
17469786	20070502	J_Genet_Genomics	D016428 D013485 	Chitinases in Oryza sativa ssp. japonica and Arabidopsis thaliana.	Chitinases (EC3.2.1.14), found in a wide range of organisms, catalyze the hydrolysis of chitin and play a major role in defense mechanisms against fungal pathogens. The alignment and typical domains were analyzed using basic local alignment search tool (BLAST) and simple modular architecture research tool (SMART), respectively. On the basis of the annotations of rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Arabidopsis genomic sequences and using the bio-software SignalP3.0, TMHMM2.0, TargetP1.1, and big-Pi Predictor, 25 out of 37 and 16 out of 24 open reading frames (ORFs) with chitinase activity from rice and Arabidopsis, respectively, were predicted to have signal peptides (SPs), which have an average of 24.8 amino acids at the N-terminal region. Some of the chitinases were secreted extracellularly, whereas some were located in the vacuole. The phylogenic relationship was analyzed with 61 ORFs and 25 known chitinases and they were classified into 6 clusters using Clustal X and MEGA3.1. This classification is not completely consistent when compared with the traditional system that classifies the chitinases into 7 classes. The frequency of distribution of amino acid residues was distinct in different clusters. The contents of alanine, glycine, serine, and leucine were very high in each cluster, whereas the contents of methionine, histidine, tryptophan, and cysteine were lower than 20%. Each cluster had distinct amino acid characteristics. Alanine, valine, leucine, cysteine, serine, and lysine were rich in Clusters I to VI, respectively. 
1664199	19911101	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Fractionation of cellulases from the ruminal fungus Neocallimastix frontalis EB188.	Cellulases from the ruminal fungus Neocallimastix frontalis EB188 were separated by using hydroxylapatite column chromatography. Seven carboxymethylcellulases, six avicelases, and four beta-glucosidases accounted for the majority of the activities. The separation of enzymes was confirmed by using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Electrophoretic migration, analysis of hydrolysis products, and substrate specificity measurements suggested that several different cellulases were secreted in N. frontalis EB188. The possible relationship of cellulase diversity to protein glycosylation is discussed. 
11046133	20001025	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Sok2 regulates yeast pseudohyphal differentiation via a transcription factor cascade that regulates cell-cell adhesion.	In response to nitrogen limitation, Saccharomyces cerevisiae undergoes a dimorphic transition to filamentous pseudohyphal growth. In previous studies, the transcription factor Sok2 was found to negatively regulate pseudohyphal differentiation. By genome array and Northern analysis, we found that genes encoding the transcription factors Phd1, Ash1, and Swi5 were all induced in sok2/sok2 hyperfilamentous mutants. In accord with previous studies of others, Swi5 was required for ASH1 expression. Phd1 and Ash1 regulated expression of the cell surface protein Flo11, which is required for filamentous growth, and were largely required for filamentation of sok2/sok2 mutant strains. These findings reveal that a complex transcription factor cascade regulates filamentation. These findings also reveal a novel dual role for the transcription factor Swi5 in regulating filamentous growth. Finally, these studies illustrate how mother-daughter cell adhesion can be accomplished by two distinct mechanisms: one involving Flo11 and the other involving regulation of the endochitinase Cts1 and the endoglucanase Egt2 by Swi5. 
14575675	20031025	Ecotoxicol._Environ._Saf.	D016428 	Yeast pheromone signaling pathway as a bioassay to assess the effect of chemicals on mammalian peptide hormones.	The intercellular pheromone signal transduction pathways involved in sexual reproduction in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae constitute an extracellular network system involving cell surface receptors. The system is analogous to the signaling pathway of mammalian peptide hormones. The yeast mating pheromone alpha factor is homologous to mammalian gonadoliberins such as luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). In this study, we used the yeast pheromone signaling pathway as a model system to evaluate the effect of industrial chemicals on mammalian peptide hormones. Haploid a- and alpha-cell types conjugate, using mating pheromones, to form diploid cells. However, in a cells treated with certain chemicals used in pesticides, fungicides, and industrial products (i.e., TPN (CAS No. 1897-45-6), thiuram (CAS No. 137-26-8), captan (CAS No. 133-06-2), oxine-copper (CAS No. 10380-28-6), zineb (CAS No. 12122-67-7), and ziram (CAS No. 137-30-4)) the induction of shmoo formation was suppressed even when commercial alpha-factor was added. The FUS1-lacZ gene, which is transcriptionally regulated by a pheromone, was transferred into yeast and the effects of TPN, captan, zineb, and ziram, under sublethal conditions, were investigated: beta-Galactosidase levels declined to levels similar to that of untreated control cells when in the absence of the alpha-factor. Furthermore, these chemicals influenced conjugation to alpha-cells, and mating efficiency declined as chemical concentration increased. Analysis of the yeast pheromone signaling pathway helps to establish chemical toxicity assay models for mammalian peptide signal transduction pathways. 
8784193	19960903	Biochemistry	D016428 	Folding and stability of endoglucanase III, a single-domain cellulase from Trichoderma reesei.	The reversible folding of an endoglucanase (EGIII) from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei was investigated by activity, tryptophan fluorescence, and peptide CD measurements. Equilibrium stability was determined by urea denaturation at various pH and temperature values. Unfolding and refolding rates were measured over a range of urea concentrations. The data from the equilibrium and kinetic studies fit a simple two-state model, except at lower urea concentrations, where the folding kinetics indicate a transient intermediate. Unfolding is very slow, with a half-life of about 2 h in 8 M urea at pH 5.5 and 25 degrees C. Comparison of the urea dependence of the folding kinetics and equilibrium indicates the protein undergoes 93% of its total change in solvent exposure on going from the unfolded state to the transition state. Thus, the transition state is quite compact. The presence of dithiothreitol destabilized the protein by 7 kcal/mol, indicating the presence of an unusually strong disulfide linkage between the two cysteines in the molecule. Protein stability is dramatically reduced at alkaline pH values; this can be attributed to a titratable shift (pKa = 7.8) in the slope of the urea dependence of unfolding. 
870437	19770301	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013487 	Cell wall studies of Histoplasma capsulatum and Blastomyces dermatitidis using autologous and heterologous enzymes.	Enzymes capable of hydrolyzing cell walls of Blastomyces dermatitidis and chemotypes I and II of Histoplasma capsulatum were prepared in the laboratory or obtained from commercial sources. They included chitinases, beta-1,3-glucanases, beta-1,6-glucanase, and Pronase. Monosaccharides and disaccharides of glucose released from the cell walls by the enzymes were determined qualitatively by paper and gas-liquid chromatography, and monosaccharides were quantitated by the latter technique as well. An enzyme system isolated from Streptomyces sp. containing both chitinase and glucanase released maximum amounts of glucose and N-acetylglucosamine from the cell walls of H. capsulatum chemotype I. A chitinase preparation, free of glucanase, from Serratia marcescens released only chitobiose and N-acetylglucosamine from chemotype I cell walls, but the total quantity of N-acetylglucosamine released was about 60% less than that released by the Streptomyces system. A beta-1,3-glucanase from Bacillus circulans hydrolyzed the cell walls of H. capsulatum chemotype I, but a beta-1,6-glucanase failed to release glucose from the same walls. Autolytic enzymes, viz., beta-1,3-glucanases and several glycosidases were detected as constitutive enzymes in both yeast and mycelial phases of B. dermatitidis and H. capsulatum chemotypes I and II. No difference in the amount of activity was found between cell sap and culture filtrate preparations. The beta-glucanases prepared from the Histoplasma and Blastomyces strains were active on the cell walls of the yeast phases of H. capsulatum chemotypes I and II, releasing laminaribiose and glucose, but were essentially inactive on the cell walls of B. dermatitidis. Chitinase, beta-1,6-glucanase, alpha-glucanase, and alpha-glucosidase activities were absent from these fungal enzyme preparations. 
8132657	19940325	J._Biol._Chem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Identification of regulatory elements in the cutinase promoter from Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi (Nectria haematococca).	The cutinase gene from Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi (Nectria haematococca) is induced upon contact with the plant cuticular polymer, cutin, by the unique hydroxy fatty acid monomers released by cutinase carried by virulent strains of the fungus, and this gene is also catabolite-repressed by glucose. Functional elements of the cutinase promoter were studied in vivo by transforming F. solani pisi with fusions of 5'-flanking regions of the cutinase gene and the gene encoding chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (cat). DNA-binding proteins from F. solani pisi were analyzed in vitro by gel shift experiments, methylation interference analysis, and UV-cross-linking experiments. Thus, we identified four promotor elements involved in cutinase gene regulation: a silencer, positive-acting G-rich element, an element that binds a basal transcription factor, and a palindrome necessary for induction by cutin monomer. A silencer between -287 and -249 keeps basal gene expression low but also influences the inducibility of the gene. To restore high levels of induction, a G-rich positive-acting element with sequence similarities to other fungal elements acts as an antagonist to the silencer. Basal transcription is mediated by the first 141 base pairs of the cutinase promoter. The binding site of transcription factor CTF2 was identified between the TATA box and the transcription initiation sites. Gene induction by cutin monomers is regulated by CTF1, most probably a dimeric DNA-binding protein of 49 kDa with a palindromic recognition site at -170. 
20519912	20100604	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Complete saccharification of cellulose at high temperature using endocellulase and beta-glucosidase from Pyrococcus sp.	We investigated a potential for glucose production from cellulose material using two kinds of hyperthermophilic enzymes, endo-cellulase (EG) and beta-glucosidase (BGL). Two BGLs from hyperthermophile Pyrococcus furiosus and mesophile Aspergillus aculeatus were compared for complete hydrolysis of cellulose with P. horikoshii endo-cellulase (EGPh). The combination reactions by each BGL enzyme and EGPh could produce only glucose without the other oligosaccharides from phosphoric acid swollen Avicel (PSA). The combination of the both hyperthermophilic cellulases, BGLPf and EGPh, will be adaptable to high efficient system to produce glucose at high temperature. 
12026177	20020525	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Pathogen challenge, salicylic acid, and jasmonic acid regulate expression of chitinase gene homologs in pine.	To better understand the molecular regulation of defense responses in members of the genus Pinus, we tested the expression of various chitinase homologs in response to pathogen-associated signals. PSCHI4, a putative extracellular class II chitinase, was secreted into liquid medium by pine cells and was also secreted by transgenic tobacco cells that ectopically expressed pschi4. Extracellular proteins of pine were separated by isoelectric focusing; PSCHI4 was not associated with fractions containing detectable beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase or lysozyme activities. However, other fractions contained enzyme activities that increased markedly after elicitor treatment. The pschi4 transcript and protein accumulated in pine seedlings challenged with the necrotrophic pathogen Fusarium subglutinans f. sp. pini, with the protein reaching detectable levels in susceptible seedlings concomitant with the onset of visible disease symptoms. Additional chitinase transcripts, assigned to classes I and IV based on primary sequence analysis, were also induced by pathogen challenge. Jasmonic acid induced class I and class IV but not class II chitinase, whereas salicylic acid induced all three classes of chitinase. These results show that multiple chitinase homologs are induced after challenge by a necrotrophic pathogen and by potential signaling molecules identified in angiosperms. This suggests the potential importance of de novo pathogenesis-related (PR) gene expression in pathogen defense responses of pine trees. 
10906959	20000725	EXS	D016428 D016454 	Chitinases in biological control.	The public concern over the harmful effects of chemical pesticides on the environment and human health has enhanced the search for safer, environmentally friendly control alternatives. Control of plant pests by the application of biological agents holds great promise as an alternative to the use of chemicals. It is generally recognized that biological control agents are safer and more environmentally sound than is reliance on the use of high volumes of pesticides. Due to the importance of chitinolytic enzymes in insect, nematode, and fungal growth and development, they are receiving attention in regard to their development as biopesticides or chemical defense proteins in transgenic plants and microbial biocontrol agents. In this sense, biological control of some soil-borne fungal diseases has been correlated with chitinase production. Fungi- and bacteria-producing chitinases exhibit antagonism against fungi, and inhibition of fungal growth by plant chitinases has been demonstrated. Insect pathogenic fungi have considerable potential for the biological control of insect pests. Entomopathogenic fungi apparently overcome physical barriers of the host by producing multiple extracellular enzymes including chitinolytic enzymes, which help to penetrate the cuticle and facilitate infection. In this chapter, the role of chitinases in biological control and their potential use in the improvement of biocontrol agents and crop plants by genetic engineering is analyzed in view of recent findings. 
9205568	19970501	Food_Addit_Contam	D016428 	An overview of the safety evaluation of the Thermomyces lanuginosus xylanase enzyme (SP 628) and the Aspergillus aculeatus xylanase enzyme (SP 578).	Xylanases SP 628 and SP 578 were produced by submerged fermentation of Aspergillus oryzae, containing a gene code originating from Thermomyces lanuginosus and Aspergillus aculeatus, respectively. Both enzymes were subject to the same series of toxicological tests to document their safety in use. The enzymes are to be applied as processing aids in the baking industry and in wheat starch separation. Neither enzyme was found to be mutagenic in the Salmonella typhimurium reverse mutation assay, nor did they cause chromosomal aberrations in cultured human peripheral lymphocytes. No evidence of inhalation toxicity or skin and eye irritation was found. The enzymes are not regarded as skin-sensitizers, although the Buehler test with guinea-pigs revealed a minor potential. Oral administration up to 10.0 ml/kg bw/day (equivalent to a Total Organic Solids amount of 13.3% for SP 628 and of 11.3% for SP 578) in 13-week rat studies did not show any adverse effect. 
22964851	20120912	Lab._Invest.	D016428 D052061 	Heme oxygenase-1 promotes granuloma development and protects against dissemination of mycobacteria.	Non-tuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infections occur in both immunocompromised and immunocompetent hosts and are an increasingly recognized cause of morbidity and mortality. The hallmark of pulmonary mycobacterial infections is the formation of granuloma in the lung. Our study focuses on the role of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), a cytoprotective enzyme, in the regulation of granuloma development and maturation following infection with Mycobacterium avium. We examined the role of HO-1 in regulating monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2), two molecules involved in monocyte-macrophage cell trafficking after infection. We showed that RAW 264.7 mouse monocytes exposed to M. avium expressed HO-1 and MCP-1. Inhibition of HO by zinc protoporphyrin-IX led to inhibition of MCP-1 and increased expression of CCR2, its cognate receptor. HO-1⁻/⁻ mice did not develop organized granuloma in their lungs, had higher lung colony forming unit of M. avium when infected with intratracheal M. avium, and had loose collections of inflammatory cells in the lung parenchyma. Mycobacteria were found only inside defined granulomas but not outside granuloma in the lungs of HO-1⁺/⁺ mice. In HO-1⁻/⁻ mice, mycobacteria were also found in the liver and spleen and showed increased mortality. Peripheral blood monocytes isolated from GFP⁺ mice and given intravenously to HO-1⁺/⁺ mice localized into tight granulomas, while in HO-1⁻/⁻ mice they remained diffusely scattered in areas of parenchymal inflammation. Higher MCP-1 levels were found in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of M. avium infected HO-1(-/-) mice and CCR2 expression was higher in HO-1⁻/⁻ alveolar macrophages when compared with HO-1⁺/⁺ mice. CCR2 expression localized to granuloma in HO-1⁺/⁺ mice but not in the HO-1⁻/⁻ mice. These findings strongly suggest that HO-1 plays a protective role in the control of M. avium infection. 
18388455	20080405	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Functional analysis of a gene encoding endoglucanase that belongs to glycosyl hydrolase family 12 from the brown-rot basidiomycete Fomitopsis palustris.	The brown-rot basidiomycete Fomitopsis palustris is known to degrade crystalline cellulose (Avicel) and produce three major cellulases, exoglucanases, endoglucanases, and beta- glucosidases. A gene encoding endoglucanase, designated as cel12, was cloned from total RNA prepared from F. palustris grown at the expense of Avicel. The gene encoding Cel12 has an open reading frame of 732 bp, encoding a putative protein of 244 amino acid residues with a putative signal peptide residing at the first 18 amino acid residues of the N-terminus of the protein. Sequence analysis of Cel12 identified three consensus regions, which are highly conserved among fungal cellulases belonging to GH family 12. However, a cellulose-binding domain was not found in Cel12, like other GH family 12 fungal cellulases. Northern blot analysis showed a dramatic increase of cel12 mRNA levels in F. palustris cells cultivated on Avicel from the early to late stages of growth and the maintenance of a high level of expression in the late stage, suggesting that Cel12 takes a significant part in endoglucanase activity throughout the growth of F. palustris. Adventitious expression of cel12 in the yeast Pichia pastoris successfully produced the recombinant protein that exhibited endoglucanase activity with carboxymethyl cellulose, but not with crystalline cellulose, suggesting that the enzyme is not a processive endoglucanase unlike two other endoglucanases previously identified in F. palustris. 
9169553	19970601	J._Mol._Evol.	D016428 D013485 	Structural and evolutionary relationships among chitinases of flowering plants.	The analysis of nuclear-encoded chitinase sequences from various angiosperms has allowed the categorization of the chitinases into discrete classes. Nucleotide sequences of their catalytic domains were compared in this study to investigate the evolutionary relationships between chitinase classes. The functionally distinct class III chitinases appear to be more closely related to fungal enzymes involved in morphogenesis than to other plant chitinases. The ordering of other plant chitinases into additional classes mainly relied on the presence of auxiliary domains-namely, a chitin-binding domain and a carboxy-terminal extension-flanking the main catalytic domain. The results of our phylogenetic analyses showed that classes I and IV form discrete and well-supported monophyletic groups derived from a common ancestral sequence that predates the divergence of dicots and monocots. In contrast, other sequences included in classes I* and II, lacking one or both types of auxiliary domains, were nested within class I sequences, indicating that they have a polyphyletic origin. According to phylogenetic analyses and the calculation of evolutionary rates, these chitinases probably arose from different class I lineages by relatively recent deletion events. The occurrence of such evolutionary trends in cultivated plants and their potential involvement in host-pathogen interactions are discussed. 
24299806	20131205	Carbohydr_Polym	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and expression of the cold-adapted endo-1,4-β-glucanase gene from Eisenia fetida.	Biofuel production from plant-derived lignocellulosic material using fungal cellulases is facing cost-effective challenges related to high temperature requirements. The present study identified a cold-adapted cellulase named endo-1,4-β-glucanase (EF-EG2) from the earthworm Eisenia fetida. The gene was cloned in the cold-shock expression vector (pCold I) and functionally expressed in Escherichia coli ArcticExpress RT (DE3). The gene consists of 1,368 bp encoding 456 amino acid residues. The amino acid sequence shares sequence homology with the endo-1,4-β-glucanases of Eisenia andrei (98%), Pheretima hilgendorfi (79%), Perineresis brevicirris (63%), and Strongylocentrotus nudus (58%), which all belong to glycoside hydrolase family 9. Purified recombinant EF-EG2 hydrolyzed soluble cellulose (carboxymethyl cellulose), but not insoluble (powdered cellulose) or crystalline (Avicel) cellulose substrates. Thin-layer chromatography analysis of the reaction products from 1,4-β-linked oligosaccharides of various lengths revealed a cleavage mechanism consistent with endoglucanases (not exoglucanases). The enzyme exhibited significant activity at 10°C (38% of the activity at optimal 40°C) and was stable at pH 5.0-9.0, with an optimum pH of 5.5. This new cold-adapted cellulase could potentially improve the cost effectiveness of biofuel production. 
8112694	19930101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	Fungicide inhibition of aflatoxins, diacetoxyscirpenol and zearalenone production.	The effect of fungicides on the production of aflatoxin by Aspergillus flavus IMI 89717, diacetoxyscirpenol and zearalenone by Fusarium graminearum was studied. In a yeast extract-sucrose medium, dicloran, iprodione and vinclozolin fungicides significantly inhibited mycelial growth of A. flavus at 250 ppm and significantly decreased aflatoxin production at 100, 250 and 500 ppm, respectively. In potato-dextrose broth, these fungicides diminished the mycelial growth of F. graminearum and production of diacetoxyscirpenol and zearalenone at 100 ppm. Sensitivity of toxigenic mycelia to fungicides increased approximately five-fold in a yeast extract-starch medium with an appreciable reduction in sugar uptake and alpha-amylase activity. 
417722	19780301	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Affinity chromatography of the cellulase system of Trichoderma koningii.	A procedure involving affinity chromatography on cellulose was developed for separating enzymic components of the cellulase complex. Cellobiase, carboxymethylcellulase, component C2 and cellobiohydrolase are adsorbed with increasing tenacity, and released, as highly purified components, as the ionic strength of the eluent is decreased. 
1840532	19910915	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 	The nucleotide sequence of the glucoamylase gene GLA1 from Saccharomycopsis fibuligera KZ.	The nucleotide sequence of the 2544-bp PstI fragment carrying the glucoamylase gene of Saccharomycopsis fibuligera KZ, designated as GLA1, has been determined. When compared with the nucleotide sequence of the GLU1 gene one nucleotide substitution was found in the 321- bp of the 5'-flanking region: 24 nucleotides were altered within the 1557 bp of the structural gene causing the deduced protein products of both genes to differ in three amino acids in the signal-peptide region and in eight amino acids of the mature protein. Six nucleotide insertions and 27 substitutions were in the 663 bp of the 3'-flanking region. The gene product expressed and secreted in Saccharomyces cerevisiae into the functional enzyme was not homogeneous. In situ detection of the enzyme in a polyacrylamide gel revealed two dominant and three minor bands. 
7763680	19930601	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Esterases of xylan-degrading microorganisms: production, properties, and significance.	This review focuses on the description of recently discovered esterase enzymes involved in xylan degradation (acetyl xylan, feruloyl, and p-coumaroyl esterases). The occurrence of these enzymes in various microorganisms, assays used for determination of their activity, induction and production on different substrates, interaction with other xylanolytic enzymes, mode of action, substrate specificity, and biochemical characteristics are presented. The nature of substrates on which acetyl xylan esterase, feruloyl, and p-coumaroyl esterase are active and their role in xylan hydrolysis is emphasized. The potential applications of xylan-debranching esterases are outlined and their significance to applied microbiology is discussed. 
14742423	20040127	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	LeMPK3 is a mitogen-activated protein kinase with dual specificity induced during tomato defense and wounding responses.	Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase cascades are readily activated during the response of plants to avirulent pathogens or to pathogen-derived elicitors. Here we show that the tomato MAP kinase LeMPK3 is specifically induced at the mRNA level during elicitation of the hypersensitive response in resistant plants infected by avirulent strains of the phytopathogenic bacteria Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato, as well as upon treatment with the fungal elicitor ethylene-inducing xylanase. LeMPK3 gene expression was also induced very rapidly by mechanical stress and wounding much earlier than upon pathogen infection, but not in response to the defense-related plant hormones ethylene and jasmonic acid. Moreover, in resistant tomato plants infected by X. campestris pv. vesicatoria, transcript accumulation was followed by an increase in LeMPK3 kinase activity. Biochemical characterization of a glutathione S-transferase-LeMPK3 fusion protein revealed that the LeMPK3 MAP kinase autophosphorylates in vitro mainly on tyrosine and less so on threonine and serine, whereas it phosphorylates myelin basic protein on serine and threonine. In vitro phosphorylation of a poly-(Glu-Tyr) copolymer by LeMPK3 demonstrated its capability to phosphorylate tyrosine residues on substrates as well. By mutagenesis and phosphoamino acid analysis, Tyr-201 in the kinase activation domain was identified as the main LeMPK3 autophosphorylation site and as critical for kinase activity. Finally, LeMPK3 autophosphorylation showed a preference for Mn(2+) cations and proceeded via an intramolecular mechanism with an estimated K(m) value for ATP of 9.5 microm. These results define LeMPK3 as a MAP kinase with dual specificity and strongly suggest that it represents a convergence point for different signaling pathways inducing the activation of defense responses in tomato. 
1610176	19920201	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Isolation and partial characterization of an 87-kilodalton beta-1,3-glucanase from Bacillus circulans IAM1165.	Bacillus circulans IAM1165 produces at least two extracellular beta-1,3-glucanases that lyse fungal cell walls. One of these extracellular enzymes was purified to homogeneity. The molecular mass was 87 kDa, and the pI was 4.3. The optimum temperature of the enzyme reaction was 70 degrees C when laminarin (a soluble beta-1,3-glucan) was used as the substrate. The pH range of the enzyme was broad (pH 4.5 to 9.0), and the optimum pH was 6.5. The enzyme is an endo beta-1,3-glucanase and has a random cleavage pattern. 
18489109	20080521	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Corncob-induced endo-1,4-beta-d-xylanase of Aspergillus oryzae MTCC 5154: production and characterization of xylobiose from glucuronoxylan.	Eight different fungi were cultivated in a peptone-yeast extract medium containing 1% oat spelt xylan (OSX) to evaluate endo-1,4-beta-xylanase secretion for xylooligosaccharide (XOS) production. Aspergillus oryzae MTCC 5154, Aspergillus flavus , Aspergillus niger , and Aspergillus ochraceus showed significant titers of endoxylanases, which were further used for the production of XOS from birch wood xylan (BWX). A. oryzae produced 89.5 +/- 1.13% XOS in the hydrolysate at 24 h of reaction. The effect of OSX, BWX, and raw corncob on the induction of endoxylanase in A. oryzae was studied, and the xylanase activity was maximum at 96 h of cultivation in 3% corncob containing medium. XOS produced at 36 h of reaction was 5.87 +/- 0.53 mg/mL (12 +/- 2% xylose, 48 +/- 2.43% xylobiose, and 40 +/- 3.6% higher oligomers) from 1% BWX . HPLC/refractive index detection and ESI/MS analysis of fractions obtained by GPC corresponded to neutral and 4- O-methyl-alpha- d-glucuronic acid substituted acidic oligosaccharides. The major fraction, beta- d-xylopyranosyl-(1-->4)- d-xylanopyranose was characterized using (13)C NMR. 
23624306	20130430	N_Biotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Starchy biomass-powered enzymatic biofuel cell based on amylases and glucose oxidase multi-immobilized bioanode.	The present study reports the design of a novel bioanode to directly utilize starch as a fuel in an enzymatic biofuel cell. The enzymatic fuel cell is based on three enzymes (alpha-amylase, glucoamylase and glucose oxidase). The carbon paste electrode containing these three enzymes and tetrathiafulvalene can both saccharize and oxidize starchy biomass. In cyclic voltammetry, catalytic currents were successfully observed with both glucose and starchy white rice used as a substrate. Finally, a membrane-less white rice/O2 biofuel cell was assembled and the electrochemical performance was evaluated. The three enzyme based electrode was used as a bioanode and an immobilized bilirubin oxidase (derived from Myrothecium verrucaria) electrode was used as a biocathode. The biofuel cell delivered an open circuit voltage of 0.522V and power density of up to 99.0 μWcm(-2). Our results show that a readily available fuel can be used for enzymatic fuel cells, and will lead to new designs. 
2258052	19901015	Gene	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Expression and secretion of rice alpha-amylase by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We report the high level expression and secretion of rice alpha-amylase isozyme by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Transcription of this gene was under control of the yeast enolase promoter. The synthesized protein had an approximate molecular size of 45 kDa and a pI of approx 4.7 to 5.0. The rice alpha-amylase signal peptide was recognized and efficiently processed by yeast and the active, glycosylated enzyme was secreted into the culture media. This enzyme was purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography and its enzymatic properties were characterized. The Km and Vmax were found to be similar to those of alpha-amylases from other organisms. The high level of secretion observed in these studies may be due to the unique features of the rice signal peptide and/or to the glycosylation of the recombinant enzyme. 
22490823	20120412	Mol._Biol._Evol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Molecular and functional evolution of class I chitinases for plant carnivory in the caryophyllales.	Proteins produced by the large and diverse chitinase gene family are involved in the hydrolyzation of glycosidic bonds in chitin, a polymer of N-acetylglucosamines. In flowering plants, class I chitinases are important pathogenesis-related proteins, functioning in the determent of herbivory and pathogen attack by acting on insect exoskeletons and fungal cell walls. Within the carnivorous plants, two subclasses of class I chitinases have been identified to play a role in the digestion of prey. Members of these two subclasses, depending on the presence or absence of a C-terminal extension, can be secreted from specialized digestive glands found within the morphologically diverse traps that develop from carnivorous plant leaves. The degree of homology among carnivorous plant class I chitinases and the method by which these enzymes have been adapted for the carnivorous habit has yet to be elucidated. This study focuses on understanding the evolution of carnivory and chitinase genes in one of the major groups of plants that has evolved the carnivorous habit: the Caryophyllales. We recover novel class I chitinase homologs from species of genera Ancistrocladus, Dionaea, Drosera, Nepenthes, and Triphyophyllum, while also confirming the presence of two subclasses of class I chitinases based upon sequence homology and phylogenetic affinity to class I chitinases available from sequenced angiosperm genomes. We further detect residues under positive selection and reveal substitutions specific to carnivorous plant class I chitinases. These substitutions may confer functional differences as indicated by protein structure homology modeling. 
15584961	20041209	Plant_J.	D016428 D013486 	Mutations in PMR5 result in powdery mildew resistance and altered cell wall composition.	Powdery mildews and other obligate biotrophic pathogens are highly adapted to their hosts and often show limited host ranges. One facet of such host specialization is likely to be penetration of the host cell wall, a major barrier to infection. A mutation in the pmr5 gene rendered Arabidopsis resistant to the powdery mildew species Erysiphe cichoracearum and Erysiphe orontii, but not to the unrelated pathogens Pseudomonas syringae or Peronospora parasitica. PMR5 belongs to a large family of plant-specific genes of unknown function. pmr5-mediated resistance did not require signaling through either the salicylic acid or jasmonic acid/ethylene defense pathways, suggesting resistance in this mutant may be due either to the loss of a susceptibility factor or to the activation of a novel form of defense. Based on Fourier transform infrared analysis, the pmr5 cell walls were enriched in pectin and exhibited a reduced degree of pectin modification relative to wild-type cell walls. In addition, the mutant had smaller cells, suggesting a defect in cell expansion. A double mutant with pmr6 (defective in a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored pectate lyase-like gene) exhibited a strong increase in total uronic acid content and a more severe reduction in size, relative to the single mutants, suggesting that the two genes affect pectin composition, either directly or indirectly, via different mechanisms. These two mutants highlight the importance of the host cell wall in plant-microbe interactions. 
10933800	20000810	Biochemistry	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Identification of Asp-130 as the catalytic nucleophile in the main alpha-galactosidase from Phanerochaete chrysosporium, a family 27 glycosyl hydrolase.	Characterization of the complete gene sequence encoding the alpha-galactosidase from Phanerochaete chrysosporium confirms that this enzyme is a member of glycosyl hydrolase family 27 [Henrissat, B., and Bairoch, A. (1996) Biochem. J. 316, 695-696]. This family, together with the family 36 alpha-galactosidases, forms glycosyl hydrolase clan GH-D, a superfamily of alpha-galactosidases, alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidases, and isomaltodextranases which are likely to share a common catalytic mechanism and structural topology. Identification of the active site catalytic nucleophile was achieved by labeling with the mechanism-based inactivator 2',4', 6'-trinitrophenyl 2-deoxy-2,2-difluoro-alpha-D-lyxo-hexopyranoside; this inactivator was synthesized by anomeric deprotection of the known 1,3,4,6-tetra-O-acetyl-2-deoxy-2, 2-difluoro-D-lyxo-hexopyranoside [McCarter, J. D., Adam, M. J., Braun, C., Namchuk, M., Tull, D., and Withers, S. G. (1993) Carbohydr. Res. 249, 77-90], picrylation with picryl fluoride and 2, 6-di-tert-butylpyridine, and O-deacetylation with methanolic HCl. Enzyme inactivation is a result of the formation of a stable 2-deoxy-2,2-difluoro-beta-D-lyxo-hexopyranosyl-enzyme intermediate. Following peptic digestion, comparative liquid chromatographic/mass spectrometric analysis of inactivated and control enzyme samples served to identify the covalently modified peptide. After purification of the labeled peptide, benzylamine was shown to successfully replace the 2-deoxy-2,2-difluoro-D-lyxo-hexopyranosyl peptidyl ester by aminolysis. The labeled amino acid was identified as Asp-130 of the mature protein by further tandem mass spectrometric analysis of the native and derivatized peptides in combination with Edman degradation analysis. Asp-130 is found within the sequence YLKYDNC, which is highly conserved in all known family 27 glycosyl hydrolases. 
2396985	19900815	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	Studies of the cellulolytic system of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei QM 9414. Substrate specificity and transfer activity of endoglucanase I.	Endoglucanase I from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei catalyses hydrolysis and glycosyl-transfer reactions of cello-oligosaccharides. Initial bond-cleaving frequencies determined with 1-3H-labelled cello-oligosaccharides proved to be substrate-concentration-dependent. Using chromophoric glycosides and analysing the reaction products by h.p.l.c., kinetic data are obtained and, as typical for an endo-type depolymerase, apparent hydrolytic parameters (kcat., kcat./Km) increase steadily as a function of the number of glucose residues. At high substrate concentrations, and for both free cellodextrins and their aromatic glycosides, complex patterns (transfer reactions) are, however, evident. In contrast with the corresponding lactosides and 1-thiocellobiosides, and in conflict with the expected specificity, aromatic 1-O-beta-cellobiosides are apparently hydrolysed at both scissile bonds, yielding the glucoside as one of the main reaction products. Its formation rate is clearly non-hyperbolically related to the substrate concentration and, since the rate of D-glucose formation is substantially lower, strong indications for dismutation reactions (self-transfer) are again obtained. Evidence for transfer reactions catalysed by endoglucanase I further results from experiments using different acceptor and donor substrates. A main transfer product accumulating in a digest containing a chromophoric 1-thioxyloside was isolated and its structure elucidated by proton n.m.r. spectrometry (500 MHz). The beta 1-4 configuration of the newly formed bond was proved. 
9701815	19980814	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Apolar growth of Neurospora crassa leads to increased secretion of extracellular proteins.	Protein secretion in filamentous fungi has been shown to be restricted to actively growing hyphal tips. To determine whether an increase in the amount f growing surface area of a fungus can lead to an increase in the amount of protein secretion, we examined secretion in a temperature-sensitive Neurospora crassa mcb mutant that shows a loss of growth polarity when incubated at restrictive temperature. Incubation of the mcb mutant at restrictive temperature results in a three- to fivefold increase in the level of extracellular protein and a 20-fold increase in carboxymethyl cellulase activity relative to a wild-type strain. A mutation in the cr-1 gene has been shown previously to suppress the apolar growth phenotype of the mcb mutant, and we find that the level of extracellular protein produced by a mcb; cr-1 double mutant was reduced to that of the wild-type control. Immunolocalization of a secreted endoglucanase revealed that proteins are secreted mainly at hyphal tips in hyphae exhibiting polar growth and over the entire surface area of bulbous regions of hyphae that are produced after a shift of the mcb mutant to restrictive temperature. These results support the hypothesis that secretion of extracellular protein by a filamentous fungus can be significantly increased by mutations that alter growth polarity. 
17036750	20061014	Arch_Anim_Nutr	D016428 	In vitro degradation of wheat straw by anaerobic fungi from small ruminants.	Anaerobic ruminal fungi may play an active role in fibre degradation as evidenced by the production of different fibrolytic enzymes in culture filtrate. In the present study, 16 anaerobic fungal strains were isolated from ruminal and faecal samples of sheep and goats. Based on their morphological characteristics they were identified as species of Anaeromyces, Orpinomyces, Piromyces and Neocallimastix. Isolated Neocallimastix sp. from goat rumen showed a maximum activity of CMCase (47.9 mIU ml(-1)) and filter paper cellulase (48.3 mIU ml(-1)), while Anaeromyces sp. from sheep rumen showed a maximum xylanolytic activity (48.3 mIU ml(-1)). The cellobiase activity for all the isolates ranged from 178.0-182.7 mIU ml(-1). Based on the enzymatic activities, isolated Anaeromyces sp. from sheep rumen and Neocallimastix sp. from goat rumen were selected for their potential of in vitro fibre degradation. The highest in vitro digestibility of NDF (23.2%) and DM (34.4%) was shown for Neocallimastix sp. from goat rumen, as compared to the digestibility of NDF and DM in the control group of 17.5 and 25.0%, respectively. 
5409	19750901	J._Biochem.	D016428 	Purification and properties of an exo-cellulase component of novel type from Trichoderma miride.	An enzyme extract from Cellulase-Onozuka, a commercial product of Trichoderma viride, was fractionated by Amberlite CG-50 column chromatography into three cellulase [EC 3.2.1.4] groups, peaks I to III. A noval enzyme, which has both beta-glucosidase [EC 3.2.1.21] and exo-carboxymethyl-cellulase (exo-CMCase) properties was obtained from peak III by extensive purification throuh consecutive column chromatography. The enzyme was homogeneous on ultracentrifugation, SDS-gel and cellulose acetate film electrophoreses and molecular sieve chromatography on Bio-Gel P-150. The molecular weight of this enzyme was estimated to be 53,000. The enzyme appeared to release cellobiose residues one by one from the nonreducing end of higher cellooligosaccharides and CM-cellulose (CMC), but to release glucosyl residues from reduced cellotriose and beta-cellobioside, resembling a beta-glucosidase in this respect. Furthermore, this exo-CMCase also attacked xylan exo-wise to produce xylobiose moleculaes one by one, but it scarcely attacked insoluble cellulose, except for a cellodextrin apparently rich in amorphous structure. 
20543065	20100615	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Melanin externalization in Candida albicans depends on cell wall chitin structures.	The fungal pathogen Candida albicans produces dark-pigmented melanin after 3 to 4 days of incubation in medium containing l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) as a substrate. Expression profiling of C. albicans revealed very few genes significantly up- or downregulated by growth in l-DOPA. We were unable to determine a possible role for melanin in the virulence of C. albicans. However, we showed that melanin was externalized from the fungal cells in the form of electron-dense melanosomes that were free or often loosely bound to the cell wall exterior. Melanin production was boosted by the addition of N-acetylglucosamine to the medium, indicating a possible association between melanin production and chitin synthesis. Melanin externalization was blocked in a mutant specifically disrupted in the chitin synthase-encoding gene CHS2. Melanosomes remained within the outermost cell wall layers in chs3Delta and chs2Delta chs3Delta mutants but were fully externalized in chs8Delta and chs2Delta chs8Delta mutants. All the CHS mutants synthesized dark pigment at equivalent rates from mixed membrane fractions in vitro, suggesting it was the form of chitin structure produced by the enzymes, not the enzymes themselves, that was involved in the melanin externalization process. Mutants with single and double disruptions of the chitinase genes CHT2 and CHT3 and the chitin pathway regulator ECM33 also showed impaired melanin externalization. We hypothesize that the chitin product of Chs3 forms a scaffold essential for normal externalization of melanosomes, while the Chs8 chitin product, probably produced in cell walls in greater quantity in the absence of CHS2, impedes externalization. 
23982327	20130829	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Monitoring of the bacterial and fungal biodiversity and dynamics during Massa Medicata Fermentata fermentation.	The microbial community dynamics play an important role during Massa Medicata Fermentata (MMF) fermentation. In this study, bacterial and fungal communities were investigated based on the culture-dependent method and polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis. Meanwhile the dynamic changes of digestive enzyme activities were also examined. Plating results showed that MMF fermentation comprised two stages: pre-fermentation stage (0-4 days) was dominated by bacterial community and post-fermentation stage (5-9 days) was dominated by fungal community. The amount of bacteria reached the highest copy number 1.2 × 10(10) CFU/g at day 2, but the fungi counts reached 6.3 × 10(5) CFU/g at day 9. A total of 170 isolates were closely related to genera Enterobacter, Klebsiella, Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas, Mucor, Saccharomyces, Rhodotorula, and Amylomyces. DGGE analysis showed a clear reduction of bacterial and fungal diversity during fermentation, and the dominant microbes belonged to genera Enterobacter, Pediococcus, Pseudomonas, Mucor, and Saccharomyces. Digestive enzyme assay showed filter paper activity; the activities of amylase, carboxymethyl cellulase, and lipase reached a peak at day 4; and the protease activity constantly increased until the end of the fermentation. In this study, we carried out a detailed and comprehensive analysis of microbial communities as well as four digestive enzymes' activities during MMF fermentation process. The monitoring of bacterial and fungal biodiversity and dynamics during MMF fermentation has significant potential for controlling the fermentation process.  
19393758	20090428	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of specific binding sites for XYR1, a transcriptional activator of cellulolytic and xylanolytic genes in Trichoderma reesei.	The transcriptional activator XYR1 is the central regulator that governs cellulolytic and xylanolytic gene expression in Trichoderma reesei. However, despite its biological importance, relatively little is known about its functional binding sequences. In the present study, we investigated the binding characteristics and specific target for XYR1 by using DNase I footprinting analysis and electrophoretic mobility shift assays. We demonstrate that XYR1 can interact not only with the 5'-GGCTAA-3' motif but also with several 5'-GGC(A/T)(3)-3' motifs. In silico analysis revealed that the 5'-GGC(A/T)(3)-3' motifs are widespread as single site in 5'-upstream region of all the XYR1-regulated genes. Furthermore, we defined the important nucleotides within the binding site that contribute to specific interaction with XYR1. Our results suggest that, together with the inverted repeat motifs, the single 5'-GGC(A/T)(4)-3' motifs play important roles as functional XYR1-binding sites in the regulation of cellulase and xylanase gene expression in T. reesei. 
11327768	20010501	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 	The X-ray crystal structure of the Trichoderma reesei family 12 endoglucanase 3, Cel12A, at 1.9 A resolution.	We present the three-dimensional structure of Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase 3 (Cel12A), a small, 218 amino acid residue (24.5 kDa), neutral pI, glycoside hydrolase family 12 cellulase that lacks a cellulose-binding module. The structure has been determined using X-ray crystallography and refined to 1.9 A resolution. The asymmetric unit consists of six non-crystallographic symmetry-related molecules that were exploited to improve initial multiple isomorphous replacement phasing, and subsequent structure refinement. The enzyme contains one disulfide bridge and is glycosylated at Asp164 by a single N-acetyl glucosamine residue. The protein has the expected fold for a glycoside hydrolase clan-C family 12 enzyme. It contains two beta-sheets, of six and nine strands, packed on top of one another, and one alpha-helix. The concave surface of the nine-stranded beta-sheet forms a large substrate-binding groove in which the active-site residues are located. In the active site, we find a carboxylic acid trio, similar to that of glycoside hydrolase families 7 and 16. The strictly conserved Asp99 hydrogen bonds to the nucleophile, the invariant Glu116. The binding crevice is lined with both aromatic and polar amino acid side-chains which may play a role in substrate binding. The structure of the fungal family 12 enzyme presented here allows a complete structural characterization of the glycoside hydrolase-C clan. 
10867946	20000627	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Change in composition of structural components of leaf cellulose sulfate during fermentation bleaching by xylanases].	The possibility of the use of xylanase preparations for hydrolysing hemicelluloses in a non-bleached kraft pulp in order to facilitate its bleaching was studied. The effects of enzymatic preparations of the fungal and bacterial origins were examined, and the optimal conditions for xylanase activity were determined. UV spectroscopy demonstrated that the treatment of kraft pulp with the enzymatic preparations containing xylanase facilitated the subsequent removal of lignin and increased the brightness by 5%. The effect of enzymatic treatment was retained in the case of peroxide bleaching. The enzymatic preparations studied are promising for the development of chlorine-free pulp bleaching technologies. 
2110140	19900501	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression and regulation of glucoamylase from the yeast Schwanniomyces castellii.	Expression of the 146-kilodalton (kDa) extracellular glucoamylase by the budding yeast Schwanniomyces castellii is induced by maltose and starch. By use of antiglucoamylase antisera, we found that this expression was regulated at the level of the mRNA, taking place within 30 min after exposure of yeast cells to the respective sugars. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis of the in vitro-translated products of total RNA from maltose-treated cells established that the glucoamylase precursor was approximately 120 kDa in size. Stable glucoamylase transcript was not produced in cells exposed to glucose, 2-deoxyglucose, and heat shock. Cells exposed to these two sugars also degraded intracellular and extracellular glucoamylase. In the presence of sugars such as cellobiose, galactose, lactose, and xylose or in the absence of any carbohydrate, a low-level, constitutive-like expression of this preglucoamylase occurred. The nascent glucoamylase underwent at least two posttranslational modifications, resulting in a 138-kDa cell-associated form and the 146-kDa active form that was found free in the medium. These results suggest that glucoamylase expression is tightly regulated similarly to expression of the enzymes responsible for maltose metabolism in Saccharomyces yeasts. 
23594998	20130419	Int_J_Mol_Sci	D016428 D013485 	Identification of a genomic region containing a novel promoter resistant to glucose repression and over-expression of β-glucosidase gene in Hypocrea orientalis EU7-22.	A high concentration of glucose in the medium could greatly inhibit the expression of cellulase in filamentous fungi. The aspartic protease from fungus Hypocrea orientalis EU7-22 could efficiently express under both induction condition and glucose repression condition. Based on the sequence of structure gene of aspartic protease, the upstream sequence harboring the putative promoter proA for driving the expression of aspartic protease was obtained by genome walking. The upstream sequence contained the typical promoter motifs "TATA" and "CAAT". The β-glucosidase gene (Bgl1) from H. orientalis was cloned and recombined with promoter proA and terminator trpC. The expression cassette was ligated to the binary vector to form pUR5750-Bgl1, and then transferred into the host strain EU7-22 via Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation (ATMT), using hygromycin B resistance gene as the screening marker. Four transformants Bgl-1, Bgl-2, Bgl-3 and Bgl-4 were screened. Compared with the host strain EU7-22, the enzyme activities of filter paper (FPA) and β-glucosidase (BG) of transformant Bgl-2 increased by 10.6% and 19.1% under induction condition, respectively. The FPA and BG activities were enhanced by 22.2% and 700% under 2% glucose repression condition, respectively, compared with the host strain. The results showed that the putative promoter proA has successfully driven the over-expression of Bgl1 gene in H. orientalis under glucose repression condition. 
12147244	20020731	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Atomic resolution structure of the major endoglucanase from Thermoascus aurantiacus.	The crystal structure of the major endoglucanase from the thermophilic fungus Thermoascus aurantiacus was determined by single isomorphous replacement at 1.12A resolution. The full sequence supports the classification of the protein in a subgroup of glycoside hydrolase family 5 for which no structural data are available yet. The active site shows eight critical residues, strictly conserved within family 5. In addition, aromatic residues that line the substrate-binding cleft and that are possibly involved in substrate-binding are identified. A number of residues seem to be conserved among members of the subtype, including a disulphide bridge between Cys212 and Cys249. 
21558674	20110512	Microbes_Environ.	D016428 D013485 	Evaluation of cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic abilities of fungi isolated from coffee residue and sawdust composts.	This study focused on the evaluation of cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic fungi isolated from sawdust compost (SDC) and coffee residue compost (CRC). To identify fungal isolates, the ITS region of fungal rRNA was amplified and sequenced. To evaluate enzyme production, isolates were inoculated onto wheat bran agar plates, and enzymes were extracted and tested for cellulase, xylanase, β-glucanase, mannanase, and protease activities using different azurine cross-linked (AZCL) substrates. In total, 18 isolates from SDC and 29 isolates from CRC were identified and evaluated. Four genera (Aspergillus, Galactomyces, Mucor, and Penicillium) and five genera (Aspergillus, Coniochaeta, Fusarium, Penicillium, and Trichoderma/Hypocrea) were dominant in SDC and CRC, respectively. Penicillium sp., Trichoderma sp., and Aspergillus sp. displayed high cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic activities, while Mucor isolates exhibited the highest β-glucanase and mannanase activities. The enzyme analyses revealed that Penicillium, Aspergillus, and Mucor isolates significantly contributed to the degradation of SDC, whereas Penicillium, Aspergillus, and Trichoderma isolates had a dominant role in the degradation of CRC. Notably, isolates SDCF5 (P. crustosum), CRCF6 (P. verruculosum), and CRCF2 and CRCF16 (T. harzianum/H. lixii) displayed high activity regarding cellulose and hemicellulose degradation, which indicates that these species could be beneficial for the improvement of biodegradation processes involving lignocellulosic materials. 
16666294	19881001	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Chitinases and beta-1,3-Glucanases in the Apoplastic Compartment of Oat Leaves (Avena sativa L.).	To isolate chitinases and beta-1,3-glucanases from the intercellular space of oats (Avena sativa L.), primary leaves were infiltrated with buffer and subjected to gentle centrifugation to obtain intercellular washing fluid (IWF). Approximately 5% of the chitinase and 10% of the beta-1,3-glucanase activity of the whole leaf were released. Only small amounts (0.01-0.03%) of the intracellular marker malate-dehydrogenase were released into the IWF during infiltration. Activities of chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase in the IWF and in the leaf extract were compared by different chromatographic methods. On Sephadex G-75, chitinase appeared as a single peak (M(r) 29.8 kD) both in IWF and homogenate. beta-1,3-Glucanase, however, showed two peaks in the IWF (M(r) 52 and 31.3 kD), whereas the elution pattern of the homogenate showed only one major peak at 22 kD. Chromatofocusing indicated that the IWF contained four chitinases and five beta-1,3-glucanases. The elution pattern of the homogenate and IWF were similar with regard to the elution pH, but the peak intensities were distinctly different. Our results demonstrate that extracellular beta-1,3-glucanases are different from those located intracellularly. Extracellular and intracellular chitinases do not differ in molecular properties, except for one isozyme which seems to be confined to the extracellular space. We suggest that both enzymes might play a special role in pathogenesis during fungal infection. 
18025571	20071121	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Overexpression of an endochitinase gene (ThEn-42) in Trichoderma atroviride for increased production of antifungal enzymes and enhanced antagonist action against pathogenic fungi.	Trichoderma is one of the most promising biocontrol agents against plant fungal diseases. In this study, a transgenic strain of Trichoderma atroviride was characterized. The transgenic strain contains an endochitinase gene (ThEn-42) driven by the cellulase promoter cbh1 of T. reesei for overexpression of ThEn-42. The culture filtrates of the transformant and the parental strain grown in eight different media were evaluated for chitinase and antifungal enzyme production based on activity gels, protein profiles, and antifungal activities. Results demonstrated that chitinases are important components and synergistic interactions play a key role in the antagonistic action of T. atroviride. Moreover, altering medium nutrient concentration and composition led to enhanced production of antifungal enzymes, a potential strategy for mass production. Two of the culture filtrates contained almost pure endochitinase, and could be excellent commercial sources for this enzyme. Several culture filtrates were highly antifungal. Two filtrates were so effective in biocontrol of a fungal pathogen, Penicillium digitatum, that they not only inhibited spore germination but destroyed the spores completely when 20 microl of culture filtrate (corresponding to approximately 104 microg of total protein) was applied in a total volume of 150 microl (approximately 0.7 mg protein ml(-1)). 
7858211	19941201	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Coordinate expression of antibody subunit genes yields high levels of functional antibodies in roots of transgenic tobacco.	To explore the feasibility of employing antibodies to obtain disease resistance against plant root pathogens, we have studied the expression of genes encoding antibodies in roots of transgenic plants. A model monoclonal antibody was used that binds to a fungal cutinase. Heavy and light chain cDNAs were amplified by PCR, fused to a signal sequence for secretion and cloned behind CaMV 35S and TR2' promoters in a single T-DNA. The chimeric genes were cloned both in tandem and in a divergent orientation. The roots of tobacco plants transformed with these constructs produced antibodies that were able to bind antigen in an ELISA. Immunoblotting showed assembly to a full-size antibody. In addition, a F(ab')2-like fragment was observed, which is probably formed by proteolytic processing. Both antibody species were properly targeted to the apoplast, but the full-size antibody was partially retained by the wall of suspension cells. The construct with divergent promoters showed a better performance than the construct with promoters in tandem. It directed the accumulation of functional antibodies to a maximum of 1.1% of total soluble protein, with half of the plants having levels higher than 0.35%. The high efficiency of this construct probably results from coordinated and balanced expression of light and heavy chain genes, as evidenced by RNA blot hybridization. 
10849816	20000613	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 	Repeated solid-phase fermentation and extraction for enzyme production.	Solid-phase fermentation has been found to have a much higher productivity than the popular liquid submerged fermentation in producing cellulase enzymes. The highest reported productivity in the literature for cellulases by Trichoderma cultures in submerged fermentation is 158 filter paper units (FPU)/(h.L) of fermenting liquid. From preliminary experiments of solid-phase fermentation in 1000-mL flasks, a productivity of 234 FPU of cellulases/(h.L) of solid-bed volume was obtained. When two novel techniques--pressure pulsation and repeated extraction--were applied, a productivity of 806 FPU/(h.L) was achieved. The same techniques also greatly enhanced the productivity of other enzymes by fungal cultures in solid-phase fermentation. 
22004347	20111019	ACS_Chem._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Cellobiose dehydrogenase and a copper-dependent polysaccharide monooxygenase potentiate cellulose degradation by Neurospora crassa.	The high cost of enzymes for saccharification of lignocellulosic biomass is a major barrier to the production of second generation biofuels. Using a combination of genetic and biochemical techniques, we report that filamentous fungi use oxidative enzymes to cleave glycosidic bonds in cellulose. Deletion of cdh-1, the gene encoding the major cellobiose dehydrogenase of Neurospora crassa, reduced cellulase activity substantially, and addition of purified cellobiose dehydrogenases from M. thermophila to the Δcdh-1 strain resulted in a 1.6- to 2.0-fold stimulation in cellulase activity. Addition of cellobiose dehydrogenase to a mixture of purified cellulases showed no stimulatory effect. We show that cellobiose dehydrogenase enhances cellulose degradation by coupling the oxidation of cellobiose to the reductive activation of copper-dependent polysaccharide monooxygenases (PMOs) that catalyze the insertion of oxygen into C-H bonds adjacent to the glycosidic linkage. Three of these PMOs were characterized and shown to have different regiospecifities resulting in oxidized products modified at either the reducing or nonreducing end of a glucan chain. In contrast to previous models where oxidative enzymes were thought to produce reactive oxygen species that randomly attacked the substrate, the data here support a direct, enzyme-catalyzed oxidation of cellulose. Cellobiose dehydrogenases and proteins related to the polysaccharide monooxygenases described here are found throughout both ascomycete and basidiomycete fungi, suggesting that this model for oxidative cellulose degradation may be widespread throughout the fungal kingdom. When added to mixtures of cellulases, these proteins enhance cellulose saccharification, suggesting that they could be used to reduce the cost of biofuel production. 
21954604	20110930	Mol._Biol._(Mosk.)	D004740 D016428 	[Endo-alpha-1-4-polygalactosaminidases and their homologues: structure and evolution].	Endo-alpha-1,4-polygalactosaminidase is a rare enzyme. Its catalytic domain belongs to the GH114 family of glycoside hydrolases. Phylogenetic analysis of the family proteins allowed us to show an important role of duplications, eliminations, and horizontal transfer in the evolution of their genes. Domain structure, the secondary structure, and proposed structure of the active center of the endo-alpha-1,4-polygalactosaminidases are discussed. Evolutionary connections of the GH114 family with GH13, GH18, GH20, GH27, GH29, GH31, GH35, GH36, and GH66 families of glycoside hydrolases, as well as, with COG1306, COG1649, COG2342, GHL3, and GHL4 families of enzymatically uncharacterized proteins have been revealed by iterative screening of the protein database. The unclassified homologues have been grouped into 13 new families of hypothetical glycoside hydrolases: GHL5 - GHL15, GH36J, and GH36K. 
10209572	19990421	Food_Addit_Contam	D016428 	Safety evaluation of a fungal pectinesterase enzyme preparation and its use in food.	The Aspergillus aculeatus pectinesterase enzyme is used to modify the texture of plant derived products. It is produced by A. oryzae transformed with the cloned full length cDNA of A. aculeatus encoding pectinesterase. It was subjected to a series of toxicological tests to document safety in use. The enzyme preparation was not found to be mutagenic in the Ames test, and did not cause chromosomal damage in a human lymphocyte assay. In a 13-week oral-toxicity study in rats, with daily dosages up to 10 g enzyme preparation kg body weight (b.w.), there were no adverse effects on mortality, clinical signs, body weight, food or water consumption, ophthalmoscopic findings, haematology or clinical chemistry. There were also no notable necropsy or histological findings. Statistically significant increases in heart weight were noted in male animals treated with 5 or 10 g enzyme preparation/kg b.w./day, following covariance analysis. However, this was not considered to be related to treatment with the enzyme preparation. The issue of the levels of free liberation of methanol in products processed with pectinesterase is addressed, and it is concluded that, from a nutritional and physiological point of view, free as well as bound methanol must be considered. 
18762935	20080903	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of the catalytic domains of Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase I, II, and III, expressed in Escherichia coli.	The genes encoding the catalytic domains (CD) of the three endoglucanases (EG I; Cel7B, EG II; Cel5A, and EG III; Cel12A) from Trichoderma reesei QM9414 were expressed in Escherichia coli strains Rosetta-gami B (DE3) pLacI or Origami B (DE3) pLacI and were found to produce functional intracellular proteins. Protein production by the three endoglucanase transformants was evaluated as a function of growth temperature. Maximal productivity of EG I-CD at 15 degrees C, EG II-CD at 20 degrees C and EG III at 37 degrees C resulted in yields of 6.9, 72, and 50 mg/l, respectively. The endoglucanases were purified using a simple purification method based on removing E. coli proteins by isoelectric point precipitation. Specific activity toward carboxymethyl cellulose was found to be 65, 49, and 15 U/mg for EG I-CD, EG II-CD, and EG III, respectively. EG II-CD was able to cleave 1,3-1,4-beta-D-glucan and soluble cellulose derivatives. EG III was found to be active against cellulose, 1,3-1,4-beta-D-glucan and xyloglucan, while EG I-CD was active against cellulose, 1,3-1,4-beta-D-glucan, xyloglucan, xylan, and mannan. 
15142627	20040515	Res._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Use of genes encoding cellobiohydrolase-C and topoisomerase II as targets for phylogenetic analysis and identification of Fusarium.	Molecular identification and phylogenetic studies rely to a large extent on rDNA sequence polymorphism. In the field of fungal taxonomy, despite the use of huge amounts of rDNA data available, some species within a given genus remain indistinguishable. Therefore, new target sequences need to be selected and validated. This is the case for Fusarium, which includes numerous species most of which are involved in both animal and plant pathologies. In addition to the rDNA fragment encompassing the internal transcribed spacers ITS1 and ITS2 and the 5.8 S sequence, two newly characterized genes were used as molecular markers for Fusarium species genotyping. The cellobiohydrolase-C (cbh-C) and the topoisomerase II (topII) gene parts were cloned and sequenced for at least one isolate of each of the eleven different species of our collection. Both cbh-C and topII were found to be single copy genes. DNA fragments amplified by PCR in order to establish phylogenetic trees range from 1123 to 1157 bp for rDNA and from 327 to 344 bp for cbh-C (this part contains one intron). The topII gene part encoding the carboxy-terminus of the ATP binding domain of the enzyme is constant in length with a value of 724 bp. PAUP-generated phylogenetic analyses based either on cbh-C or topII data enabled all species to be distinguished, and were more informative than those resulting from rDNA sequences. Furthermore, a combination of the three datasets enhanced the accuracy of the analyses and open up new possibilities for rapid molecular identification and evolution studies within the Fusarium genus. 
16412083	20060118	Plant_J.	D016428 D013485 	LePLDbeta1 activation and relocalization in suspension-cultured tomato cells treated with xylanase.	Phospholipase D (PLD) has been implicated in various cellular processes including membrane degradation, vesicular trafficking and signal transduction. Previously, we described a PLD gene family in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) and showed that expression of one of these genes, LePLDbeta1, was induced by treatment with the fungal elicitor xylanase. To further investigate the function of this PLD, a gene-specific RNAi construct was used to knock down levels of LePLDbeta1 transcript in suspension-cultured tomato cells. Silenced cells exhibited a strong decrease in xylanase-induced PLD activity and responded to xylanase treatment with a disproportionate oxidative burst. Furthermore, LePLDbeta1-silenced cell-suspension cultures were found to have increased polyphenol oxidase activity, to secrete less of the beta-d-xylosidase LeXYL2 and to secrete and express more of the xyloglucan-specific endoglucanase inhibitor protein XEGIP. Using an LePLDbeta1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein for confocal laser scanning microscopy-mediated localization studies, untreated cells displayed a cytosolic localization, whereas treatment with xylanase induced relocalization to punctuate structures within the cytosol. Possible functions for PLDbeta in plant-pathogen interactions are discussed. 
23996212	20130903	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Biocontrol efficacy and plant growth promoting activity of Bacillus altitudinis isolated from Darjeeling hills, India.	A total of 18 bacterial isolates were obtained from the rhizosphere of Sechium edule growing in the lower foothills of Darjeeling, India. The bacterial isolates were tested for PGPR traits in vitro such as phosphate solubilization, HCN, siderophore, IAA, chitinase, protease production as well as inhibition of pthytopathogens. Of all the bacterial isolates, one bacterium designated as BRHS/S-73 was found to possess all the tested characters which was identified on the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis as Bacillus altitudinis and was selected for in vivo studies. A significant improvement in growth measured in terms of increase in root length, shoot length, and increase in root and shoot biomass was observed when seeds of Vigna radiata, Cicer arietinum, and Glycine max were bacterized prior to sowing in field condition. Besides, the bacterium could also solubilize soil phosphate. Apart form growth promotion, root rot disease of Vigna radiata caused by Thanatephorus cucumeris was also significantly reduced by 74% when the bacterium was applied to the rhizosphere prior to pathogen challenge. The biocontrol efficacy of the bacterium was found to be 66.6% even after 30 days of pathogen inoculation. Activities of key defense related enzymes such as phenylalanine ammonia lyase, peroxidase, β-1,3-glucanase, and chitinase in both roots and leaves of treated plants were also enhanced. Results clearly suggest that B. altitudinis (BRHS/S-73) is a potential PGPR which can be used as efficient microorganism for enhancement of plant growth and suppression of fungal disease.  
20602653	20100707	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	The extracellular β-1,3-endoglucanase EngA is involved in autolysis of Aspergillus nidulans.	To elucidate the roles of the β-1,3-endoglucanase EngA in autolysis of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans and to identify the common regulatory elements of autolytic hydrolases. A β-1,3-endoglucanase was purified from carbon-starving cultures of A. nidulans. This enzyme is found to be encoded by the engA gene (locus ID: AN0472.3). Functional and gene-expression studies demonstrated that EngA is involved in the autolytic cell wall degradation resulting from carbon starvation of the fungus. Moreover, regulation of engA is found to be dependent on the FluG/BrlA asexual sporulation signalling pathway in submerged culture. The deletion of either engA or chiB (encoding an endochitinase) caused highly reduced production of hydrolases in general. The β-1,3-endoglucanase EngA plays a pivotal role in fungal autolysis, and activities of both EngA and ChiB are necessary to orchestrate the expression of autolytic hydrolases. The production of cell wall-degrading enzymes was coordinately controlled in a highly sophisticated and complex manner. No information was available on the autolytic glucanase(s) of the euascomycete A. nidulans. This study demonstrates that EngA is a key element in fungal autolysis, and normal activities of both EngA and ChiB are crucial for balanced production of hydrolases. 
12177473	20020815	Plant_Physiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Inhibition of the plastidic ATP/ADP transporter protein primes potato tubers for augmented elicitation of defense responses and enhances their resistance against Erwinia carotovora.	Tubers of transgenic potato (Solanum tuberosum) plants with decreased activity of the plastidic ATP/ADP transporter AATP1 display reduced levels of starch, modified tuber morphology, and altered concentrations of primary metabolites. Here, we demonstrate that the spontaneous production of hydrogen peroxide, the endogenous content of salicylic acid, and the levels of mRNAs of various defense-related genes are similar in tuber discs of wild-type and AATP1(St) antisense plants. However, upon challenging the tissue with fungal elicitors or culture supernatants of the soft rot-causing pathogen Erwinia carotovora subsp. atroseptica, the AATP1(St) antisense tubers exhibit highly potentiated activation of defense responses when compared with wild-type tissue. The augmented defense responses comprise enhanced accumulation of transcripts of five defense-related genes (beta-1,3-GLUCANASE B2 and A1, CHITINASE B3 and A2, and Phe AMMONIA-LYASE) and enhanced elicitation (up to 21-fold) of the early hydrogen peroxide burst. The potentiated activation of cellular defense responses in AATP1(St) antisense tubers is not accompanied by a precedent increase in endogenous salicylic acid levels, but is associated with a strongly enhanced resistance of the tissue to E. carotovora. From these results, we conclude that inhibition of primary metabolic reactions induces a primed state that sensitizes the potato tubers for improved elicitation of various cellular defense responses, which likely contribute to enhanced E. carotovora resistance. 
12619825	20030307	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic activity of endophytic fungi of six native seedling species from Doi Suthep-Pui National Park, Thailand.	Endophytic fungi were isolated from the stems, petioles, midribs, and leaves of seedlings of six native tree species collected from Doi Suthep-Pui National Park, Thailand. Endophytes were isolated from all tissue samples investigated, and taxa included five ascomycetes, eight anamorphic taxa, and numerous sterile mycelia. Twenty-six strains were tested for their ability to produce cellulase, mannanase, proteinase, and xylanase. The ability to produce these enzymes was distributed amongst the strains tested. Rainforest seedlings supported a diverse array of endophytes that have a wide range of enzymatic activities. The implication of enzyme production in relation to lifestyle abilities of the endophytes is discussed. 
24450186	20140124	Mikrobiol._Z.	D004740 D016428 	[Cellulolytic activity of Fenellia flavipes and Fusarium oxysporum strains].	The production of cellulolytic enzymes by Fenellia flavipes and Fusarium oxysporum strains in submerged culture with plant residues as carbon source was studied. It was established that the majority of studied strains was able to hydrolyze the filter paper, husk of sunflower seeds, wheat straw and corn stalks. The ability to synthesize enzymes depended on the strain of microscopic fungi, type of substrate and duration of cultivation. As a result two fungal strains were selected: F. flavipes 655 with maximum of cellulolytic activity 2 U/ml in the medium with wheat straw and 1.6 U/ml in the medium with corn stalks on the 4th day of cultivation and F. oxysporum 420 which synthesized 0.875 mg/ml of reducing sugars. 
18500632	20080527	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Genetic relatedness of Trichoderma isolates antagonistic against Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. dianthi inflicting carnation wilt.	Twenty-eight isolates of Trichoderma belonging to four different species were screened in vitro for their antagonistic ability against Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. dianthi causing carnation wilt. Three different levels of antagonism observed in dual plate assay were further confirmed by cell-free culture filtrate experiments. Isolates showing class I level of antagonism produced maximum lytic enzymes, chitinases and beta-1,3-glucanases. Genetic variability of 25 selected isolates was assessed by random amplified polymorphic DNA technique and the amplified products were correlated for their level of antagonism. Unweighed pair-group method with arithmetical averages cluster analysis revealed prominent inter-and intraspecific genetic variation among the isolates. Based on their genetic relationship, the isolates were mainly distributed into 3 major groups representing T. atroviride, T. pseudokoningii and T. harzianum, with 20-35% interspecific dissimilarity. However, the polymorphism shown by the isolates did not correlate to their level of antagonism. 
1288491	19921201	Biochem._Int.	D016428 	Beta-glucosidase of a white-rot fungus Trametes gibbosa.	Extracellular beta-glucosidase was purified from a white-rot fungus, Trametes gibbosa by 50% ammonium sulphate saturation and Sephadex G-100 column chromatography. It showed maximum activity towards p-nitrophenyl- beta-D- glucopyranoside (pNpG). The pH optimum was 3.5. Temperature optimum was 40 degrees C but shifted to 50 degrees C on preincubation with pNpG. Hg2+, Fe3+ and Cu2+ strongly inhibited the activity. The enzyme was competitively inhibited by glucose with a Ki of 5.2 mM. The apparent molecular mass as determined by gel filtration chromatography was 640 kDa. 
11734885	20011206	Arch._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Purification and properties of two chitinolytic enzymes of Serratia plymuthica HRO-C48.	The chitinolytic rhizobacterium Serratia plymuthica HRO-C48 was previously selected as a biocontrol agent of phytopathogenic fungi. One endochitinase (E.C. 3.2.1.14), CHIT60, and one N-acetyl-beta-1,4- D-hexosaminidase (E.C. 3.2.1.52), CHIT100, were purified and characterized. The endochitinase CHIT60, with an apparent molecular mass of 60.5 kDa, had a N-terminal amino acid sequence highly similar to that of chitinases A from Serratia liquefaciens and Serratia marcescens. The enzyme activity had its peak at 55 degrees C and pH 5.4, and increased by more than 20% in the presence of 10 mM Ca(2+), Co(2+) or Mn(2+). Activity was inhibited by 80% in the presence of 10 mM Cu(2+). CHIT100 appeared to be a monomeric enzyme with a molecular mass of 95.6 kDa and a pI of 6.8. Optimal activity was obtained at 43 degrees C and pH 6.6, and decreased by more than 90 % in the presence of 10 mM Co(2+) or Cu(2+). CHIT100 (100 microg ml(-1)) inhibited spore germination and germ tube elongation of the phytopathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea by 28 % and 31.6 %, respectively. With CHIT60 (100 microg ml(-1)), the effect was more pronounced: 78 % inhibition of of germination and 63.9 % inhibition of germ tube elongation. 
10472796	19990903	Eur._J._Cell_Biol.	D016428 D013487 	The processing alpha1,2-mannosidase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae depends on Rer1p for its localization in the endoplasmic reticulum.	The yeast alpha1,2-mannosidase Mns1p is involved in N-linked oligosaccharide processing in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by converting Man9GlcNAc2 to a single isomer of Man8GlcNAc2. alpha1,2-Mannosidase is a 63 kDa type II resident membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that has none of the known endoplasmic reticulum localization signals (HDEL/KDEL, KKXX, or RRXX). Using antibodies against recombinant alpha1,2-mannosidase, indirect immunofluorescence showed that alpha1,2-mannosidase localization is abnormal in rer1 cells and that the alpha1,2-mannosidase localizes in the vacuoles of rer1/deltapep4 cells whereas in wild-type and deltapep4 cells it is found in the endoplasmic reticulum. 35S-labeled cell extracts were subjected to double immunoprecipitation, first with antibodies to alpha1,2-mannosidase, then with either alpha1,2-mannosidase antibodies or antibodies to alpha1,6-mannose residues added in the Golgi. The labeled proteins were examined by autoradiography after sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A significant proportion of the labeled alpha1,2-mannosidase was immunoprecipitated by alpha1,6-mannose antibodies in wild-type, deltapep4 and rer1/deltapep4 cells with endogenous levels of alpha1,2-mannosidase, and in wild-type, deltapep4, rer1 and rer1/deltapep4 cells overexpressing alpha1,2-mannosidase. The alpha1,2-mannosidase of rer1/deltapep4 cells had a slower mobility on the gels than alpha1,2-mannosidase precipitated from wild-type or deltapep4 cells, indicating increased glycosylation due to transport through the Golgi to the vacuoles. It is concluded that the endoplasmic reticulum localization of alpha1,2-mannosidase in wild-type cells depends on Rer1p for retrieval from an early Golgi compartment. 
17573554	20070619	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparative profiles of alpha-amylase production in conventional tray reactor and GROWTEK bioreactor.	GROWTEK bioreactor was used as modified solid-state fermentor to circumvent many of the problems associated with the conventional tray reactors for solid-state fermentation (SSF). Aspergillus oryzae IFO-30103 produced very high levels of alpha-amylase by modified solid-state fermentation (mSSF) compared to SSF carried out in enamel coated metallic trays utilizing wheat bran as substrate. High alpha-amylase yield of 15,833 U g(-1) dry solid in mSSF were obtained when the fungus were cultivated at an initial pH of 6.0 at 32 degrees C for 54 h whereas alpha-amylase production in SSF reached its maxima (12,899 U g(-1) dry solid ) at 30 degrees C after 66 h of incubation. With the supplementation of 1% NaNO(3), the maximum activity obtained was 19,665 U g(-1) dry solid (24% higher than control) in mSSF, whereas, in SSF maximum activity was 15,480 U g(-1) dry solid in presence of 0.1% Triton X-100 (20% higher than the control). 
10424099	19990729	Mycoses	D016428 	Isolation of Basidiobolus ranarum from ectotherms in Antwerp zoo with special reference to characterization of the isolated strains.	Ten Basidiobolus ranarum (= Basidiobolus haptosporus) strains, isolated from faeces of 102 different lower vertebrates (ectotherms) exhibited in Antwerp Zoo, or from their environment were studied for their temperature requirements, haemolysis and other enzyme activities in vitro. All isolates grew well at 25 and 37 degrees C. Three strains that produced undulated zygospore walls were haemolytic and positive for hyaluronidase. All the isolates produced urease, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, trypsin, lipase, lecithinase, gelatinase, collagenase and elastase, but failed to produce amylase, keratinase and beta-glucosidase. Three isolates failed to produce phosphatase. Only one strain failed to produce DNase. Aesculin was not hydrolysed. Chitinase activity was inconclusive. The results of this study illustrate the importance of exotic animals kept in temperate regions as carriers of potentially pathogenic organisms. In addition to the morphological characteristics, the identification can be based on enzymatic profiles. Enzymatic activity detection may help to explain the pathogenic mechanism of the fungus. 
8175662	19940429	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013487 	Glycoprotein synthesis in yeast. Early events in N-linked oligosaccharide processing in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Oligosaccharide-lipid precursors and glycoprotein N-linked oligosaccharides isolated from the fission yeast, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, were compared with those from the budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Bio-Gel P-4 chromatography of oligosaccharide intermediates showed that Glc3Man9GlcNAc2-PP-dol synthesis, transfer of glycan to protein, and glucose removal to yield Man9GlcNAc2 proceeded in S. pombe as in S. cerevisiae. Two series of oligosaccharides were released from S. pombe glycoproteins by endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H; large "mannan-like" structures and smaller precursor or "core-filling" species. Unexpectedly, the smallest S. pombe N-linked glycan was Man9GlcNAc, confirmed by 500 MHz 1H NMR spectroscopy to be the lipid-linked isomer. No endoplasmic reticulum Man9-alpha 1,2-mannosidase activity was detected in S. pombe, thus identifying Man9GlcNAc as the minimum precursor for oligosaccharide elongation in contrast to the Man8GlcNAc2 intermediate identified in S. cerevisiae (Byrd, J. C., Tarentino, A. L., Maley, F., Atkinson, P. H., and Trimble, R. B. (1982) J. Biol. Chem. 257, 14657-14666). S. pombe Hex10GlcNAc was at least four isomers by high pH anion-exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection. Compositional analyses identified two of the major species as GalMan9GlcNAc and GlcMan9GlcNAc, the latter of which suggests that glycan trimming may be attenuated in the S. pombe endoplasmic reticulum. Hex13GlcNAc from S. pombe was homogeneous by mass spectrometry but yielded 12 species by high pH anion-exchange chromatography. Compositional analyses, alpha-galactosidase digestion, and lectin affinity chromatography on Griffonia simplicifolia lectin I-agarose indicated these to be a family of GalxMan13-xGlcNAc isomers (X = 1-4 residues). The absence of Man9GlcNAc2 to Man8GlcNAc2 trimming in S. pombe and elongation of the lipid precursor of Man9GlcNAc with both Man and Gal to form "galactomannans" provides a novel system for N-linked glycoprotein processing studies. 
12889828	20030802	Biotechnol._Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Kinetics of beta-glucosidase production by Saccharomyces cerevisiae recombinants harboring heterologous bgl genes.	The maximum productivity of beta-glucosidase by Saccharomyces cerevisiae recombinants under the control of GALI promoter was 100 IU l(-1) h(-1). The highest productivity of beta-glucosidase by a S. cerevisiae recombinant was 16-fold more than that supported by Cellulomonas biazotea. The recombinants also co-produced ethanol from cellobiose: maximum product yield and productivity were 0.5 and 1.1 g ethanol g(-1) cellobiose and g ethanol l(-1) h(-1), respectively. 
22355001	20120223	Mol._Cell_Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	Quantitative secretomic analysis of Trichoderma reesei strains reveals enzymatic composition for lignocellulosic biomass degradation.	Trichoderma reesei is a mesophilic, filamentous fungus, and it is a major industrial source of cellulases, but its lignocellulolytic protein expressions on lignocellulosic biomass are poorly explored at present. The extracellular proteins secreted by T. reesei QM6a wild-type and hypercellulolytic mutant Rut C30 grown on natural lignocellulosic biomasses were explored using a quantitative proteomic approach with 8-plex high throughput isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) and analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. We quantified 230 extracellular proteins, including cellulases, hemicellulases, lignin-degrading enzymes, proteases, protein-translocating transporter, and hypothetical proteins. Quantitative iTRAQ results suggested that the expressions and regulations of these lignocellulolytic proteins in the secretome of T. reesei wild-type and mutant Rut C30 were dependent on both nature and complexity of different lignocellulosic carbon sources. Therefore, we discuss here the essential lignocellulolytic proteins for designing an enzyme mixture for optimal lignocellulosic biomass hydrolysis. 
20544965	20100615	Proteins	D016428 D013485 	Structure of full-length class I chitinase from rice revealed by X-ray crystallography and small-angle X-ray scattering.	The rice class I chitinase OsChia1b, also referred to as RCC2 or Cht-2, is composed of an N-terminal chitin-binding domain (ChBD) and a C-terminal catalytic domain (CatD), which are connected by a proline- and threonine-rich linker peptide. Because of the ability to inhibit fungal growth, the OsChia1b gene has been used to produce transgenic plants with enhanced disease resistance. As an initial step toward elucidating the mechanism of hydrolytic action and antifungal activity, the full-length structure of OsChia1b was analyzed by X-ray crystallography and small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS). We determined the crystal structure of full-length OsChia1b at 2.00-A resolution, but there are two possibilities for a biological molecule with and without interdomain contacts. The SAXS data showed an extended structure of OsChia1b in solution compared to that in the crystal form. This extension could be caused by the conformational flexibility of the linker. A docking simulation of ChBD with tri-N-acetylchitotriose exhibited a similar binding mode to the one observed in the crystal structure of a two-domain plant lectin complexed with a chitooligosaccharide. A hypothetical model based on the binding mode suggested that ChBD is unsuitable for binding to crystalline alpha-chitin, which is a major component of fungal cell walls because of its collisions with the chitin chains on the flat surface of alpha-chitin. This model also indicates the difference in the binding specificity of plant and bacterial ChBDs of GH19 chitinases, which contribute to antifungal activity. 
8215355	19930901	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Construction of a recombinant wine yeast strain expressing beta-(1,4)-endoglucanase and its use in microvinification processes.	A genetic transformation system for an industrial wine yeast strain is presented here. The system is based on the acquisition of cycloheximide resistance and is a direct adaptation of a previously published procedure for brewing yeasts (L. Del Pozo, D. Abarca, M. G. Claros, and A. Jiménez, Curr. Genet. 19:353-358, 1991). Transformants arose at an optimal frequency of 0.5 transformant per microgram of DNA, are stable in the absence of selective pressure, and produce wine in the same way as the untransformed industrial strain. By using this transformation protocol, a filamentous fungal beta-(1,4)-endoglucanase gene has been expressed in an industrial wine yeast under the control of the yeast actin gene promoter. Endoglucanolytic wine yeast secretes the fungal enzyme to the must, producing a wine with an increased fruity aroma. 
24007329	20130907	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Aspartic acid protease from Botrytis cinerea removes haze-forming proteins during white winemaking.	White wines suffer from heat-induced protein hazes during transport and storage unless the proteins are removed prior to bottling. Bentonite fining is by far the most commonly used method, but it is inefficient and creates several other process challenges. An alternative to bentonite is the enzymatic removal of haze-forming grape pathogenesis-related proteins using added proteases. The major problem with this approach is that grape pathogenesis-related proteins are highly protease resistant unless they are heat denatured in combination with enzymatic treatment. This paper demonstrates that the protease BcAP8, from the grape fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea , is capable of degrading chitinase, a major class of haze-forming proteins, without heat denaturation. Because BcAP8 effectively removes haze-forming proteins under normal winemaking conditions, it could potentially benefit winemakers by reducing bentonite requirements.  
15522500	20041104	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Beta-glucosidase activity from the thermophilic fungus Scytalidium thermophilum is stimulated by glucose and xylose.	An inducible mycelial beta-glucosidase from Scytalidum thermophilum was characterized. The enzyme exhibited a pI of 6.5, a carbohydrate content of 15%, and an apparent molecular mass of about 40 kDa. Optima of temperature and pH were 60 degrees C and 6.5, respectively. The enzyme was stable up to 1 h at 50 degrees C and exhibited a half-life of 20 min at 55 degrees C. The enzyme hydrolyzed p-nitrophenyl-beta-d-glucopyranoside, p-nitrophenyl-beta-d-xylopyranoside, o-nitrophenyl-beta-d-galactopyranoside, p-nitrophenyl-alpha-arabinopyranoside, cellobiose, laminaribiose and lactose. Kinetic studies indicated that the same enzyme hydrolyzed these substrates. Beta-Glucosidase was activated by glucose or xylose at concentration varying from 50 to 200 mM. The apparent affinity constants (K0.5) for glucose and xylose were 36.69 and 43.24 mM, respectively. The stimulatory effect of glucose and xylose on the S. thermophilum beta-glucosidase is a novel characteristic which distinguish this enzyme from all other beta-glucosidases so far described. 
8480994	19930101	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D003160 D016428 D016454 	Anaerobic fungi and their cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes.	Anaerobic fungi are the inhabitants of the digestive tract of herbivorous mammals, ruminants as well as non-ruminants. One of the major characteristics of all anaerobic fungi examined thus far, is their production and secretion of a range of polysaccharide-degrading enzymes, including cellulases, xylanases and glucoside-hydrolases. The cellulolytic enzymes of the anaerobic fungus Neocallimastix frontalis have been shown to possess a high activity. Therefore anaerobic fungi and/or their enzymes could be interesting for many biotechnological applications including saccharafication of lignocellulosic residues, production of polysaccharidehydrolysing enzymes. This review summarizes the present knowledge of anaerobic fungi with special emphasis on their cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes. Further, a comparison with aerobic fungi is made. 
24015097	20130910	Mycobiology	D016428 	Enzyme activities and substrate degradation by fungal isolates on cassava waste during solid state fermentation.	The growth and bioconversion potential of selected strains growing on cassava waste substrate during solid state fermentation were assessed. Rhizopus stolonifer showed the highest and the fastest utilization of starch and cellulose in the cassava waste substrate. It showed 70% starch utilization and 81% cellulose utilization within eight days. The release of reducing sugars indicating the substrate saccharification or degradation potential of the organisms reached the highest value of 406.5 mg/g by R. stolonifer on cassava waste during the eighth day of fermentation. The protein content was gradually increased (89.4 mg/g) on the eighth day of fermentation in cassava waste by R. stolonifer. The cellulase and amylase activity is higher in R. stolonifer than A. niger and P. chrysosporium. The molecular mass of purified amylase and cellulase seemed to be 75 KDal, 85 KDal respectively.  
19382702	20090423	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Cloning of the Penicillium canescens endo-1,4-beta-glucanase gene egl3 and the characterization of the recombinant enzyme].	The gene egl3 of the filamentous fungus Penicillium canescens endo-1,4-beta-glucanase, belonging to family 12 glycosyl hydrolases, was cloned and sequenced. The gene was expressed in P. canescens under the control of the strong promoter of gene bgaS, coding for beta-galactosidase of this fungus, and efficient endoglucanase producer strains were obtained. The recombinant protein was isolated from the culture liquid of the producer strain EGL3-13 and purified to homogeneity; its specific activity was 31.7 IU; molecular weight, 26 kDa; and pH and temperature optimums, 3.2 and 54 degrees C, respectively. The Km and Vm values for CMC hydrolysis were determined; they amounted to 17.1 g/1 and 0.31 microM/(mg s), respectively. 
1699605	19901023	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	The conserved terminal region of Trichoderma reesei cellulases forms a strong antigenic epitope for polyclonal antibodies.	The specificity of polyclonal antibodies (Pab) raised against Trichoderma reesei cellulases has been studied. cDNAs lacking regions coding for certain functional domains were produced by preparing series of 3'-end deletions from the cDNAs for two cellobiohydrolases, CBH I and CBH II, and an endoglucanase, EG I. The proteins coded by the full length cDNAs and the truncated proteins coded by the deleted cDNAs were expressed in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, under the control of the ADC1 promoter. Each polyclonal antiserum showed cross-reactivity with other cellulases. Pabs for CBH I and CBH II both recognized EG I. Pab for EG I strongly recognized both CBH I and CBH II. By analyzing the truncated proteins, we found that these antibodies were almost entirely directed against the conserved tail of the cellulase enzymes. 
21310505	20110212	J._Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	A stress responsive alternative splicing mechanism in Citrus clementina leaves.	Chitinases are often considered pathogenesis-related proteins since their activity can be induced by viral infections, fungal and bacterial cell wall components, and also by more general sources of stress such as wounding, salicylic acid, ethylene, auxins and cytokinins. In the present study, comparative proteomic analysis showed the defense-related acidic chitinase II to be specifically induced in Citrus clementina leaves infested by the two-spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae or treated with MeJA. In parallel, changes in the mRNA profiles of two partially homologous chitinase forms were shown by RT-PCR. In particular, the appearance of an additional cDNA chitinase fragment in T. urticae-infested and MeJA-treated leaves was observed. This finding may indicate a specific regulatory mechanism of chitinase expression. We report evidence for alternative splicing in T. urticae-infested C. clementina, where a premature stop codon after the first 135 amino acids was introduced. We observed inducible chitinase activity after MeJA treatment, indicative of a rapid plant response to infestation. This work provides the first evidence of chitinase alternative splicing in C. clementina. In addition, the presence of the dual-band pattern for chitinase cDNA by RT-PCR may represent a suitable predictive marker for early diagnosis of plant biotic stress. 
7844703	19940101	J._Med._Vet._Mycol.	D016428 	Production and regeneration of protoplasts from the Y-phase of the human pathogenic fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.	Protoplasts of Y-cells and partially converted M-cells from several human isolates of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis were obtained with a combined enzyme system containing Novozym 234 and a chitinase. A laboratory made extract from Trichoderma harzianum CBS-345-33 supplemented with chitinase induced the release of protoplasts from partially converted M-cells but not from established Y-cells. A similar yield of protoplasts (1-2 x 10(5) ml-1 after 16 h) was produced by using either enzymatic system. Protoplasts regenerated on nutrient gelatin at 23 degrees C at a frequency of 0.1%. 
12581367	20030213	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Inorganic phosphate is sensed by specific phosphate carriers and acts in concert with glucose as a nutrient signal for activation of the protein kinase A pathway in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Yeast cells starved for inorganic phosphate on a glucose-containing medium arrest growth and enter the resting phase G0. We show that re-addition of phosphate rapidly affects well known protein kinase A targets: trehalase activation, trehalose mobilization, loss of heat resistance, repression of STRE-controlled genes and induction of ribosomal protein genes. Phosphate-induced activation of trehalase is independent of protein synthesis and of an increase in ATP. It is dependent on the presence of glucose, which can be detected independently by the G-protein coupled receptor Gpr1 and by the glucose-phosphorylation dependent system. Addition of phosphate does not trigger a cAMP signal. Despite this, lowering of protein kinase A activity by mutations in the TPK genes strongly reduces trehalase activation. Inactivation of phosphate transport by deletion of PHO84 abolishes phosphate signalling at standard concentrations, arguing against the existence of a transport-independent receptor. The non-metabolizable phosphate analogue arsenate also triggered signalling. Constitutive expression of the Pho84, Pho87, Pho89, Pho90 and Pho91 phosphate carriers indicated pronounced differences in their transport and signalling capacities in phosphate-starved cells. Pho90 and Pho91 sustained highest phosphate transport but did not sustain trehalase activation. Pho84 sustained both transport and rapid signalling, whereas Pho87 was poor in transport but positive for signalling. Pho89 displayed very low phosphate transport and was negative for signalling. Although the results confirmed that rapid signalling is independent of growth recovery, long-term mobilization of trehalose was much better correlated with growth recovery than with trehalase activation. These results demonstrate that phosphate acts as a nutrient signal for activation of the protein kinase A pathway in yeast in a glucose-dependent way and they indicate that the Pho84 and Pho87 carriers act as specific phosphate sensors for rapid phosphate signalling. 
11325554	20010428	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Addition of substrate-binding domains increases substrate-binding capacity and specific activity of a chitinase from Trichoderma harzianum.	Chitinase Chit42 from Trichoderma harzianum CECT 2413 is considered to play an important role in the biocontrol activity of this fungus against plant pathogens. Chit42 lacks a chitin-binding domain (ChBD). We have produced hybrid chitinases with stronger chitin-binding capacity by fusing to Chit42 a ChBD from Nicotiana tabacum ChiA chitinase and the cellulose-binding domain from cellobiohydrolase II of Trichoderma reesei. The chimeric chitinases had similar activities towards soluble substrate but higher hydrolytic activity than the native chitinase on high molecular mass insoluble substrates such as ground chitin or chitin-rich fungal cell walls. 
11060038	20001104	EMBO_J.	D016428 D013487 	Tup1p represses Mcm1p transcriptional activation and chromatin remodeling of an a-cell-specific gene.	In yeast, a number of regulatory proteins expressed only in specific cell types interact with general transcription factors in a combinatorial manner to control expression of cell-type-specific genes. We report a detailed analysis of activation and repression events that occur at the promoter of the a-cell-specific STE6 gene fused to a beta-galactosidase gene in a yeast minichromosome, as well as factors that control the chromatin structure of this promoter both in the minichromosome and in the genomic STE6 locus. Mcm1p results in chromatin remodeling and is responsible for all transcriptional activity from the STE6 promoter in both wild-type a and alpha cells. Matalpha2p cooperates with Tup1p to block both chromatin remodeling and Mcm1p-associated activation. While Matalpha2p represses only Mcm1p, the Tup1p-mediated repression involves both Mcm1p-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Swi/Snf and Gcn5p, required for full induction of the STE6 gene, do not contribute to chromatin remodeling. We suggest that Tup1p can contribute to repression by blocking transcriptional activators, in addition to interacting with transcription machinery and stabilizing chromatin. 
14575675	20031025	Ecotoxicol._Environ._Saf.	D016428 	Yeast pheromone signaling pathway as a bioassay to assess the effect of chemicals on mammalian peptide hormones.	The intercellular pheromone signal transduction pathways involved in sexual reproduction in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae constitute an extracellular network system involving cell surface receptors. The system is analogous to the signaling pathway of mammalian peptide hormones. The yeast mating pheromone alpha factor is homologous to mammalian gonadoliberins such as luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). In this study, we used the yeast pheromone signaling pathway as a model system to evaluate the effect of industrial chemicals on mammalian peptide hormones. Haploid a- and alpha-cell types conjugate, using mating pheromones, to form diploid cells. However, in a cells treated with certain chemicals used in pesticides, fungicides, and industrial products (i.e., TPN (CAS No. 1897-45-6), thiuram (CAS No. 137-26-8), captan (CAS No. 133-06-2), oxine-copper (CAS No. 10380-28-6), zineb (CAS No. 12122-67-7), and ziram (CAS No. 137-30-4)) the induction of shmoo formation was suppressed even when commercial alpha-factor was added. The FUS1-lacZ gene, which is transcriptionally regulated by a pheromone, was transferred into yeast and the effects of TPN, captan, zineb, and ziram, under sublethal conditions, were investigated: beta-Galactosidase levels declined to levels similar to that of untreated control cells when in the absence of the alpha-factor. Furthermore, these chemicals influenced conjugation to alpha-cells, and mating efficiency declined as chemical concentration increased. Analysis of the yeast pheromone signaling pathway helps to establish chemical toxicity assay models for mammalian peptide signal transduction pathways. 
20680572	20100804	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Xylanases of anaerobic fungus Anaeromyces mucronatus.	The anaerobic fungus Anaeromyces mucronatus KF8 grown in batch culture on M10 medium with rumen fluid and microcrystalline cellulose as carbon source produced a broad range of enzymes requisite for degradation of plant structural and storage saccharides including cellulase, endoglucanase, xylanase, alpha-xylosidase, beta-xylosidase, alpha-glucosidase, beta-glucosidase, beta-galactosidase, mannosidase, cellobiohydrolase, amylase, laminarinase, pectinase and pectate lyase. These enzymes were detected in both the intra- and extracellular fractions, but production into the medium was prevalent with the exception of intracellular beta-xylosidase, chitinases, N-acetylglucosaminidase, and lipase. Xylanase activity was predominant among the polysaccharide hydrolases. Extracellular production of xylanase was stimulated by the presence of cellobiose and oat spelt xylan. Zymogram of xylanases of strain KF8 grown on different carbon sources revealed several isoforms of xylanases with approximate molar masses ranging from 26 to 130 kDa. 
22983744	20120918	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of alkali pretreatment on the structural properties and enzymatic hydrolysis of corn cob.	An effective alkali pretreatment which affects the structural properties of cellulose (corn cob) has been studied. The pretreatment of corn cob was carried out with different combinations of alkali at varying temperatures. The most effective pretreatment of corn cob was achieved with 1 % alkali at 50 °C in 4 h. The crystallinity index (CrI) and specific surface area (SSA) of untreated corn cob was 39 % and 0.52 m(2)/g wherein after alkali pretreatment CrI decreased to 15 % and SSA increased to 3.32 m(2)/g. The fungal organism was identified as Penicillium pinophilum on the basis of ITS sequence. At 5 % substrate concentration using a complete cellulase from Penicillium pinophilum the hydrolysis of untreated corn cob with 5, 10 and 20 FPU/g enzyme loadings were 11 %, 13 % and 16 %, whereas after alkali treatment the hydrolysis increased to 78 %, 90 % and 100 %, respectively. Further hydrolytic potential of commercial cellulases viz. Accellerase™ 1,000, Palkofeel-30 and Palkocel-40 were investigated under similar conditions. 
23832529	20130709	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Glucan-rich diet is digested and taken up by the carnivorous sundew (Drosera rotundifolia L.): implication for a novel role of plant β-1,3-glucanases.	Carnivory in plants evolved as an adaptation strategy to nutrient-poor environments. Thanks to specialized traps, carnivorous plants can gain nutrients from various heterotrophic sources such as small insects. Digestion in traps requires a coordinated action of several hydrolytic enzymes that break down complex substances into simple absorbable nutrients. Among these, several pathogenesis-related proteins including β-1,3-glucanases have previously been identified in digestive fluid of some carnivorous species. Here we show that a single acidic endo-β-1,3-glucanase of ~50 kDa is present in the digestive fluid of the flypaper-trapped sundew (Drosera rotundifolia L.). The enzyme is inducible with a complex plant β-glucan laminarin from which it releases simple saccharides when supplied to leaves as a substrate. Moreover, thin-layer chromatography of digestive exudates showed that the simplest degradation products (especially glucose) are taken up by the leaves. These results for the first time point on involvement of β-1,3-glucanases in digestion of carnivorous plants and demonstrate the uptake of saccharide-based compounds by traps. Such a strategy could enable the plant to utilize other types of nutritional sources e.g., pollen grains, fungal spores or detritus from environment. Possible multiple roles of β-1,3-glucanases in the digestive fluid of carnivorous sundew are also discussed. 
14572878	20031024	Life_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Lentin, a novel and potent antifungal protein from shitake mushroom with inhibitory effects on activity of human immunodeficiency virus-1 reverse transcriptase and proliferation of leukemia cells.	From the fruiting bodies of the edible mushroom Lentinus edodes, a novel protein designated lentin with potent antifungal activity was isolated. Lentin was unadsorbed on DEAE-cellulose, and adsorbed on Affi-gel blue gel and Mono S. The N-terminal sequence of lentin manifested similarity to endoglucanase. Lentin, which had a molecular mass of 27.5 kDa, inhibited mycelial growth in a variety of fungal species including Physalospora piricola, Botrytis cinerea and Mycosphaerella arachidicola. Lentin also exerted an inhibitory activity on HIV-1 reverse transcriptase and proliferation of leukemia cells. 
3931921	19851001	Cell	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The yeast STE12 product is required for expression of two sets of cell-type specific genes.	Yeast alpha and a cells transcribe distinct sets of genes involved in mating behavior, alpha-specific genes and a-specific genes, respectively. The alpha 1 product of the alpha mating type locus (MAT alpha) has been the only known activator of either set of genes; it is required for synthesis of RNA from the alpha-specific genes, one of which is the major alpha-factor gene. By screening for mutants that are no longer able to express this gene, we have identified the STE12 gene product as another positive regulator of the alpha-factor gene. alpha ste12 cells are also defective in RNA production from the other known alpha-specific genes. Moreover, a ste12 cells fail to produce wild-type levels of RNA from the a-specific genes. The STE12 gene product is therefore an activator of two sets of genes involved in yeast cell type specialization. 
18839317	20081008	Biodegradation	D016428 D013485 	Effect of bioaugmentation and nitrogen supplementation on composting of paddy straw.	A composting experiment was conducted to evaluate the effect of a hyperlignocellulolytic fungal consortium and different nitrogen amendments on paddy straw composting in terms of changes in physicochemical and biological parameters. A fungal consortium comprising four lignocellulolytic mesophilic fungal cultures was used as inoculum for bioaugmentation of paddy straw in perforated pits. The comparative effect of farmyard manure (FYM), soybean trash, poultry litter and urea on the composting process was evaluated at monthly intervals in terms of physicochemical (pH, EC, available P, C:N ratio and humus content) and biological (enzymatic and microbial activity) parameters. The compost prepared from bioaugmented paddy straw composting mixture, with poultry manure as nitrogen supplement attained desirable C:N ratio in 1 month and displayed least phytotoxicity levels along with higher production of beta-1,4-Exoglucanase. The combined activity of the autochthonous composting microbiota as well as the externally applied fungal inoculum accelerated the composting process of paddy straw. Supplementation of paddy straw with poultry manure in 8:1 ratio was identified as the best treatment to hasten the composting process. This study highlights the importance of application of fungal inoculum and an appropriate N-amendment such as poultry manure for preparation of compost using a substrate having high C:N ratio, such as paddy straw. 
2107875	19900326	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Kinetic mechanism of beta-glucosidase from Trichoderma reesei QM 9414.	beta-Glucosidase is a key enzyme in the hydrolysis of cellulose to D-glucose. beta-Glucosidase was purified from cultures of Trichoderma reesei QM 9414 grown on wheat straw as carbon source. The enzyme hydrolyzed cellobiose and aryl beta-glucosides. The double-reciprocal plots of initial velocity vs. substrate concentration showed substrate inhibition with cellobiose and salicin. However, when p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside was the substrate no inhibition was observed. The corresponding kinetic parameters were: K = 1.09 +/- 0.2 mM and V = 2.09 +/- 0.52 mumol.min-1.mg-1 for salicin; K = 1.22 +/- 0.3 mM and V = 1.14 +/- 0.21 mumol.min-1.mg-1 for cellobiose; K = 0.19 +/- 0.02 mM and V = 29.67 +/- 3.25 mumol.min-1.mg-1 for p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside. Studies of inhibition by products and by alternative product supported an Ordered Uni Bi mechanism for the reaction catalyzed by beta-glucosidase on p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside as substrate. Alternative substrates as salicin and cellobiose, a substrate analog such as maltose and a product analog such as fructose were competitive inhibitors in the p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside hydrolysis. 
1775094	19911001	Microbiologica	D016428 D013485 	Production of xylanase by Verticillium dahliae.	Xylan induced the production of xylanase by Verticillium dahliae. Other cellulolytic enzymes such as glucanase and beta-glucosidase were synthesized in smaller quantities. The process of degradation indicated that xylanase behaved like a typical endo-enzyme causing first production of high mol, wt. products, and indicated that V. dahliae produced at least three enzymes which degrade xylan. 
1398132	19921021	Gene	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Evolution and differential expression of the (1-->3)-beta-glucan endohydrolase-encoding gene family in barley, Hordeum vulgare.	The (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan glucanohydrolases [(1-->3)-GGH; EC 3.2.1.39] of barley (Hordeum vulgare L., cv Clipper) are encoded by a small gene family. Amino acid sequences deduced from cDNA and genomic clones for six members of the family exhibit overall positional identities ranging from 44% to 78%. Specific DNA and oligodeoxyribonucleotide (oligo) probes have been used to demonstrate that the (1-->3)-GGH-encoding genes are differentially transcribed in young roots, young leaves and the aleurone of germinated grain. The high degree of sequence homology, coupled with characteristic patterns of codon usage and insertion of a single intron at a highly conserved position in the signal peptide region, indicate that the genes have shared a common evolutionary history. Similar structural features in genes encoding barley (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucan 4-glucanohydrolases [(1-->3,1-->4)-GGH; EC 3.2.1.73] further indicate that the (1-->3)-GGHs and (1-->3,1-->4)-GGHs are derived from a single 'super' gene family, in which genes encoding enzymes with related yet quite distinct substrate specificities have evolved, with an associated specialization of function. The (1-->3,1-->4)-GGHs mediate in plant cell wall metabolism through their ability to hydrolyse the (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucans that are the major constituents in barley walls, while the (1-->3)-GGHs, which are unable to degrade the plant (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucans, can hydrolyse the (1-->3)- and (1-->3,1-->6)-beta-glucans of fungal cell walls. 
22745763	20120630	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Common and distant structural characteristics of feruloyl esterase families from Aspergillus oryzae.	Feruloyl esterases (FAEs) are important biomass degrading accessory enzymes due to their capability of cleaving the ester links between hemicellulose and pectin to aromatic compounds of lignin, thus enhancing the accessibility of plant tissues to cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic enzymes. FAEs have gained increased attention in the area of biocatalytic transformations for the synthesis of value added compounds with medicinal and nutritional applications. Following the increasing attention on these enzymes, a novel descriptor based classification system has been proposed for FAEs resulting into 12 distinct families and pharmacophore models for three FAE sub-families have been developed. The feruloylome of Aspergillus oryzae contains 13 predicted FAEs belonging to six sub-families based on our recently developed descriptor-based classification system. The three-dimensional structures of the 13 FAEs were modeled for structural analysis of the feruloylome. The three genes coding for three enzymes, viz., A.O.2, A.O.8 and A.O.10 from the feruloylome of A. oryzae, representing sub-families with unknown functional features, were heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris, characterized for substrate specificity and structural characterization through CD spectroscopy. Common feature-based pharamacophore models were developed according to substrate specificity characteristics of the three enzymes. The active site residues were identified for the three expressed FAEs by determining the titration curves of amino acid residues as a function of the pH by applying molecular simulations. Our findings on the structure-function relationships and substrate specificity of the FAEs of A. oryzae will be instrumental for further understanding of the FAE families in the novel classification system. The developed pharmacophore models could be applied for virtual screening of compound databases for short listing the putative substrates prior to docking studies or for post-processing docking results to remove false positives. Our study exemplifies how computational predictions can complement to the information obtained through experimental methods. 
1525871	19920901	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The UAS(MAL) is a bidirectional promotor element required for the expression of both the MAL61 and MAL62 genes of the Saccharomyces MAL6 locus.	Maltose fermentation in Saccharomyces yeasts requires one of five unlinked MAL loci: MAL1, 2, 3, 4, or 6. Each locus consists of three genes encoding maltose permease, maltase and the MAL activator. At MAL6 the genes are called MAL61, MAL62 and MAL63, respectively. Transcription of MAL61 and MAL62 is coordinately induced by maltose and repressed by glucose and this regulation is mediated by the MAL activator. By deletion analysis of the MAL61-MAL62 intergenic region, we show that a 68-basepair region, from base pairs -515 to -582 upstream of the MAL61 start codon, contains a sequence necessary for the maltose-induced expression of MAL61 and MAL62, the UAS(MAL). This sequence contains two copies of an 11-basepair dyad which may be the active elements of the UAS(MAL). Using heterologous gene plasmid constructs, we demonstrate that the UAS(MAL) sequence is sufficient for maltose inducibility of MAL62 and that this regulated expression requires a functional MAL activator. Our results suggest that the MAL61-MAL62 intergenic region contains additional distinct elements which function to precisely regulate MAL61 and/or MAL62 expression. Among these are repressing sequences, including a glucose-responsive element located between base pairs -583 and -638, which is partially responsible for mediating glucose-repression of MAL62 expression. 
10811893	20000517	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The yeast A kinases differentially regulate iron uptake and respiratory function.	Yeast has three A kinase catalytic subunits, which have greater than 75% identity and are encoded by the TPK genes (TPK1, TPK2, and TPK3) [Toda, T., Cameron, S., Sass, P., Zoller, M. & Wigler, M. (1987) Cell 50, 277-287]. Although they are redundant for viability, the three A kinases are not redundant for pseudohyphal growth [Robertson, L. S. & Fink, G. R. (1998) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95, 13783-13787; Pan, X. & Heitman, J. (1999) Mol. Cell. Biol. 19, 4874-4887]; Tpk2, but not Tpk1 or Tpk3, is required for pseudohyphal growth. Genome-wide transcriptional profiling has revealed unique signatures for each of the three A kinases leading to the identification of additional functional diversity among these proteins. Tpk2 negatively regulates genes involved in iron uptake and positively regulates genes involved in trehalose degradation and water homeostasis. Tpk1 is required for the derepression of branched chain amino acid biosynthesis genes that seem to have a second role in the maintenance of iron levels and DNA stability within mitochondria. The fact that TPK2 mutants grow better than wild types on nonfermentable carbon sources and on media deficient in iron supports the unique role of Tpk2 in respiratory growth and carbon source use. 
14558143	20031015	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	The ICL1 gene of Pichia pastoris, transcriptional regulation and use of its promoter.	We cloned and characterized a gene encoding isocitrate lyase from the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. This gene was isolated from a P. pastoris genomic library using a homologous PCR hybridization probe, amplified with two sets of degenerate primers designed from conserved regions in yeast isocitrate lyases. The cloned gene was sequenced and consists of an open reading frame of 1563 bp encoding a protein of 551 amino acids. The molecular mass of the protein is calculated to be 60.6 kDa with high sequence similarity to isocitrate lyase from other organisms. There is a 64% identity between amino acid sequences of P. pastoris Icl and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Icl. Northern blot analyses showed that, as in S. cerevisiae, the steady-state ICL1 mRNA levels depend on the carbon source used for cell growth. Expression in P. pastoris of the dextranase gene (dexA) from Penicillium minioluteum under control of the ICL1 promoter proved that P(ICL1) is a good alternative for the expression of heterologous proteins in this methylotrophic yeast. The sequence presented here has been deposited in the EMBL data library under Accession No. AJ272040. 
2111230	19900401	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	A genetic analysis of glucoamylase activity in the diastatic yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC 625.	The wild diastatic yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC 625 has been shown to be homozygous for the glucoamylase-specifying gene STA2. spoII-1-mapping has positioned STA2 on chromosome II. Expression of STA2 is suppressed in some but not all diploids capable of sporulation, and is also inhibited by unlinked nuclear suppressor genes (SGL) found in some S. cerevisiae tester strains. EMS-induced glucoamylase-negative mutants often contain STA2-suppressor mutations. Depending on the allelic status of GEP1, a nuclear gene which also appears able to antagonise SGL-mediated suppression, STA2 expression can be blocked in petite mutants. 
22133316	20111203	Biomacromolecules	D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic pretreatment for preparing starch nanocrystals.	Starch nanocrystals (SNCs) are crystalline platelets resulting from the acid hydrolysis of starch. A limiting factor for their more widespread use is their preparation duration. Therefore, this study investigates the possibility of developing an enzymatic pretreatment of starch to reduce the acid hydrolysis duration. A screening of three types of enzymes, namely, α-amylase, β-amylase, and glucoamylase, is proposed, and the latter was selected for a pretreatment. Compared with the regular kinetics of hydrolysis for preparing SNC, that of pretreated starch was much faster. The extent of hydrolysis normally reached in 24 h was obtained after only 6 h, and the regular final yield (15% after 5 days) was reached in 45 h. AFM and X-ray diffraction measurements confirmed that the obtained nanoparticles were indeed SNC. 
23273185	20130101	Cell._Mol._Biol._(Noisy-le-grand)	D016428 	Biodegradation of sugarcane bagasse by Pleurotus citrinopileatus.	The chemically as well as hot water treated agrowaste sugarcane bagasse was subjected to degradation by Pleurotus citrinopileatus. The fungus degraded lignin, cellulose, hemicellulose, and carbon content of both chemically as well as hot water treated waste and produced in turn the edible and nutritious fruiting body. Biodegradation of the waste in terms of loss of lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose showed positive correlation with cellulases, xylanase, laccase and polyphenol oxidase (PPO) activity of the fungus. During mycelial growth of the fungus, lignin degradation was faster and during fructification, lignin degradation was slower than cellulose and hemicellulose. The carbon content of the sugarcane bagasse decreased while, nitrogen content increased during degradation of the waste. Hot water treated substrate supported better production of enzymatic activity and degraded more efficiently than chemically sterilized substrate. The total yield and biological efficiency of the mushroom was maximum on the hot water treated substrates. Degradation of the hot water treated sugarcane bagasse was better and faster than chemically treated substrates. 
11446372	20010712	Plant_J.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of five tomato phospholipase D cDNAs: rapid and specific expression of LePLDbeta1 on elicitation with xylanase.	Phospholipase D (PLD, EC 3.1.4.4.) has been implicated in a variety of plant processes, including signalling. In Arabidopsis thaliana a PLD gene family has been described and individual members classified into alpha-, beta- and gamma-classes. Here we describe a second PLD gene family in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) that includes three alpha- and two beta-classes. Different expression patterns in plant organs were observed for each PLD. In testing a variety of stress treatments on tomato cell suspensions, PLDbeta1 mRNA was found to rapidly and specifically accumulate in response to the fungal elicitor xylanase. The greatest increase was found 2 h after treatment with 100 microg m1(-1) xylanase (ninefold). In vivo PLD activity increased nearly threefold over a 1.5 h period of treatment. When the elicitor was injected into tomato leaves, PLDbeta1 mRNA accumulation peaked at 2 h (threefold increase), before decreasing to background levels within 72 h. Mutant, non-active xylanase was as effective as the active enzyme in eliciting a response, suggesting that xylanase itself, and not the products resulting from its activity, functioned as an elicitor. When chitotetraose was used as elicitor, no PLDbeta1 mRNA accumulation was observed, thus it is not a general response to elicitation. Together these data show that PLD genes are differentially regulated, reflecting potential differences in cellular function. The possibility that PLDbeta1 is a signalling enzyme is discussed. 
24121367	20131015	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	A solid state fungal fermentation-based strategy for the hydrolysis of wheat straw.	This paper reports a solid-state fungal fermentation-based pre-treatment strategy to convert wheat straw into a fermentable hydrolysate. Aspergillus niger was firstly cultured on wheat straw for production of cellulolytic enzymes and then the wheat straw was hydrolyzed by the enzyme solution into a fermentable hydrolysate. The optimum moisture content and three wheat straw modification methods were explored to improve cellulase production. At a moisture content of 89.5%, 10.2 ± 0.13 U/g cellulase activity was obtained using dilute acid modified wheat straw. The addition of yeast extract (0.5% w/v) and minerals significantly improved the cellulase production, to 24.0 ± 1.76 U/g. The hydrolysis of the fermented wheat straw using the fungal culture filtrate or commercial cellulase Ctec2 was performed, resulting in 4.34 and 3.13 g/L glucose respectively. It indicated that the fungal filtrate harvested from the fungal fermentation of wheat straw contained a more suitable enzyme mixture than the commercial cellulase. 
24031189	20130914	Braz._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Production and characterization of glucoamylase from fungus Aspergillus awamori expressed in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae using different carbon sources.	Glucoamylase is widely used in the food industry to produce high glucose syrup, and also in fermentation processes for production beer and ethanol. In this work the productivity of the glucoamylase of Aspergillus awamori expressed by the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, produced in submerged fermentation using different starches, was evaluated and characterized physico-chemically. The enzyme presented high specific activity, 13.8 U/mgprotein or 2.9 U/mgbiomass, after 48 h of fermentation using soluble starch as substrate. Glucoamylase presented optimum activity at temperature of 55°C, and, in the substratum absence, the thermostability was for 1h at 50°C. The optimum pH of activity was pH 3.5 - 4.0 and the pH stability between 5.0 and 7.0. The half life at 65°C was at 30.2 min, and the thermal energy of denaturation was 234.3 KJ mol(-1). The hydrolysis of different substrate showed the enzyme's preference for the substrate with a larger polymerization degree. The gelatinized corn starch was the substratum most susceptible to the enzymatic action.  
16876163	20060801	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Glucuronoyl esterase--novel carbohydrate esterase produced by Schizophyllum commune.	The cellulolytic system of the wood-rotting fungus Schizophyllum commune contains an esterase that hydrolyzes methyl ester of 4-O-methyl-d-glucuronic acid. The enzyme, called glucuronoyl esterase, was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from a cellulose-spent culture fluid. Its substrate specificity was examined on a number of substrates of other carbohydrate esterases such as acetylxylan esterase, feruloyl esterase and pectin methylesterase. The glucuronoyl esterase attacks exclusively the esters of MeGlcA. The methyl ester of free or glycosidically linked MeGlcA was not hydrolysed by other carbohydrate esterases. The results suggest that we have discovered a new type of carbohydrate esterase that might be involved in disruption of ester linkages connecting hemicellulose and lignin in plant cell walls. 
8815461	19960101	Rev._Argent._Microbiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Kinetics of xylanase and cellulase production by Ascobolus gamundii (Fungi, Ascomycotina)].	Growth and cellulase-xylanase enzyme systems production by Ascobolus gamundii were evaluated in synthetic media with or without natural inducers. The basal level of enzyme complexes was determined using glucose as carbon source. With crystalline cellulose, the amount of endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase was 2-4 times the basal, and the level of endoxylanase and beta-xylosidase was 3 times higher than that observed with glucose. When using xylan as carbon source, endoxylanase and endoglucanase were induced. The higher production of the enzyme systems was observed during the log-phase growth of A. gamundii with a mixture of cellulose and xylan as carbon source. The generalized induction of both enzyme complexes could be due to evolutive adaptation to the substrate (herbivore dung) in which cellulose and hemicellulose are associated to conform the plants cell-walls. 
23583288	20130416	Int._J._Biol._Macromol.	D016428 D013485 	Water-soluble (1→3),(1→4)-α-D-glucan from mango as a novel inducer of cariogenic biofilm-degrading enzyme.	A water-soluble polysaccharide (WSP) extracted from mango (Mangifera indica L.) fruits has been suggested as a new alternative to mutan for mutanase induction in Trichoderma harzianum. Structural analyses revealed that the purified WSP was a (1→3),(1→4)-α-D-glucan with the molecular mass of ca. 760 kDa in which the (1→4)-linked and (1→3)-linked α-Glcp residues were in a ratio of 1:2.4. When the strain T harzianum CCM F-340 was grown in the presence of WSP, the maximal enzyme productivity obtained after 3 days of cultivation was 34 mU/mL. The mango WSP proved to be a very effective stimulus of mutanase expression giving a 5.1-fold higher than without WSP, transcription. It was shown that the mixture of WSP-induced mutanase and commercial dextranase had a high hydrolytic potential in the reaction with streptococcal mutan, where maximal degrees of solubilization and saccharification of this biopolymer (93.4% and 80%, respectively) were reached within 9h (solubilization) and 24h (saccharification). The mixed enzymatic preparation was also effective in degradation of streptococcal mutan and its removal from cariogenic biofilms. After 3h hydrolysis, only 18.2% of the biofilm remained adhered to the glass surface. 
15964222	20050621	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	The G protein alpha subunit Tga1 of Trichoderma atroviride is involved in chitinase formation and differential production of antifungal metabolites.	Trichoderma mycoparasitism includes recognition, attack, overgrowth and lysis of the host fungus accompanied by morphological changes and secretion of hydrolytic enzymes and antibiotics. Studying the underlying signal transduction pathways, the tga1 gene encoding a Galpha subunit of Trichoderma atroviride P1 was analysed. A Deltatga1 mutant showed continuous sporulation and elevated internal steady-state cAMP levels. tga1 gene deletion resulted in a complete loss of mycoparasitic overgrowth and lysis of Rhizoctonia solani, Botrytis cinerea, and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum during direct confrontation, although infection structure formation was unaffected. The reduced mycoparasitic abilities were reflected by strongly decreased chitinase activities and reduced nag1 and ech42 gene transcription. Furthermore, production of 6-pentyl-alpha-pyrone and of metabolites with sesquiterpene structure was reduced in the Deltatga1 mutant. Regardless of these deficiencies, the mutant displayed an enhanced growth inhibition of the host fungi by over-producing other low molecular weight antifungal metabolites, suggesting opposite roles of Tga1 in regulating the biosynthesis of different antifungal substances in T. atroviride. 
22449748	20120328	J._Gen._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification and characterization of filamentous fungi isolated from fermentation starters for Hong Qu glutinous rice wine brewing.	Hong Qu glutinous rice wine is one of the most popular traditional rice wines in China. Traditionally, this wine is brewed from glutinous rice with the addition of wine fermentation starters (Hong Qu (also called red yeast rice) and White Qu). The objective of this study was to investigate the variability of filamentous fungi associated with traditional fermentation starters through a traditional culture-dependent method and a molecular identification approach. In this study, forty-three filamentous fungi were separated by traditional culture-dependent means (macro- and microscopic characteristics) from 10 fermentation starters and classified into 16 different species based on morphological examination and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences analysis. It was observed that the genus Aspergillus had the highest number (14 isolates) of isolates followed by Rhizopus (11 isolates), Monascus (5 isolates) and Penicillium (4 isolates). The species R. oryzae, A. niger, A. flavus and M. purpureus were frequently found in wine starter samples, among which R. oryzae was the most frequent species. The enzyme-producing properties (glucoamylase, α-amylase and protease) of all fungal isolates from different starters were also evaluated. A. flavus, R. oryzae and M. purpureus were found to be better glucoamylase producers. A. flavus, R. oryzae and A.oryzae exhibited higher activity of α-amylase. A. flavus and A. oryzae had higher protease activity. However, some fungal isolates of the same species exhibited a significant variability in the production levels for all determined enzyme activity. This study is the first to identify filamentous fungi associated with the starter of Hong Qu glutinous rice wine using both traditional and molecular methods. The results enrich our knowledge of liquor-related micro-organisms, and can be used to promote the development of the traditional fermentation technology. 
12029530	20020525	Curr._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Regulation of cellobiase secretion in Termitomyces clypeatus by co-aggregation with sucrase.	Regulated secretory proteins are sorted via selective co-aggregation in eukaryotes. Cellobiase (C) of the filamentous fungus Termitomyces clypeatus remained co-aggregated with sucrase (S), and only one isoform of each of the enzymes was present in intra- and extracellular extracts. Kinetics of secretion of sucrase increased in vivo and in vitro in secreting (Sc) medium and decreased under non-secreting (NSc) conditions similar to those observed for cellobiase. In the Sc condition, total enzyme production and activity ratios of cellobiase and sucrase (C/S) in cell-bound, extra- and intracellular preparations increased with time and were significantly higher from those obtained in non-secretory media. It was concluded that secretion of sucrase in culture medium is under same cellular regulation as that of cellobiase, and sucrase is involved in regulating extracellular release of cellobiase through co-aggregation in the fungus. 
22375884	20120302	Mol._Plant_Pathol.	D016428 D013485 	Iron deficiency affects plant defence responses and confers resistance to Dickeya dadantii and Botrytis cinerea.	Iron is an essential element for most living organisms, and pathogens are likely to compete with their hosts for the acquisition of this element. The bacterial plant pathogen Dickeya dadantii has been shown to require its siderophore-mediated iron uptake system for systemic disease progression on several host plants, including Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, we investigated the effect of the iron status of Arabidopsis on the severity of disease caused by D. dadantii. We showed that symptom severity, bacterial fitness and the expression of bacterial pectate lyase-encoding genes were reduced in iron-deficient plants. Reduced symptoms correlated with enhanced expression of the salicylic acid defence plant marker gene PR1. However, levels of the ferritin coding transcript AtFER1, callose deposition and production of reactive oxygen species were reduced in iron-deficient infected plants, ruling out the involvement of these defences in the limitation of disease caused by D. dadantii. Disease reduction in iron-starved plants was also observed with the necrotrophic fungus Botrytis cinerea. Our data demonstrate that the plant nutritional iron status can control the outcome of an infection by acting on both the pathogen's virulence and the host's defence. In addition, iron nutrition strongly affects the disease caused by two soft rot-causing plant pathogens with a large host range. Thus, it may be of interest to take into account the plant iron status when there is a need to control disease without compromising crop quality and yield in economically important plant species. 
1995339	19910211	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of a new gene (SW A2) encoding an alpha-amylase from Schwanniomyces occidentalis and its expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A new gene (SW A2) encoding a secretory alpha-amylase activity from Schwanniomyces occidentalis has been cloned from this yeast and then expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Both Sw, occidentalis and a transformant of S. cerevisiae incorporating SW A2 contain a transcript of 2.1 kb which hybridizes to DNa carrying the SW A2 gene. This indicates that the transcript is a product of the SW A2 gene. Transcription of the SW A2 gene seems to be regulated in both Sw. occidentalis and S. cerevisiae. Furthermore, the secretion of alpha-amylase activity is drastically repressed by glucose in both Sw. occidentalis and a transformant of S. cerevisiae containing SW A2. 
19707752	20090827	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Novel strategy for yeast construction using delta-integration and cell fusion to efficiently produce ethanol from raw starch.	We developed a novel strategy for constructing yeast to improve levels of amylase gene expression and the practical potential of yeast by combining delta-integration and polyploidization through cell fusion. Streptococcus bovis alpha-amylase and Rhizopus oryzae glucoamylase/alpha-agglutinin fusion protein genes were integrated into haploid yeast strains. Diploid strains were constructed from these haploid strains by mating, and then a tetraploid strain was constructed by cell fusion. The alpha-amylase and glucoamylase activities of the tetraploid strain were increased up to 1.5- and tenfold, respectively, compared with the parental strain. The diploid and tetraploid strains proliferated faster, yielded more cells, and fermented glucose more effectively than the haploid strain. Ethanol productivity from raw starch was improved with increased ploidy; the tetraploid strain consumed 150 g/l of raw starch and produced 70 g/l of ethanol after 72 h of fermentation. Our strategy for constructing yeasts resulted in the simultaneous overexpression of genes integrated into the genome and improvements in the practical potential of yeasts. 
12943532	20030829	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	A role for calcium in the regulation of neutral trehalase activity in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Neutral trehalases mobilize trehalose accumulated by fungal cells as a protective and storage carbohydrate. A structural feature of these enzymes is the presence of an EF-like motif similar to that shown by many Ca2+-binding proteins. In this study we provide direct evidence for physical binding of Ca2+ to neutral trehalase (Ntp1p) of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and show that aspartic residues at positions 97 and 108 in the conserved putative Ca2+-binding motif of Ntp1p appear to be responsible for this interaction. Mutations in these residues do not interfere with the ability of Ntp1p to associate in vivo with trehalose-6-phosphate synthase, but prevent activation of neutral trehalase triggered by the addition of glucose or by subjecting cells to stressing conditions. Strains expressing Ntp1p variants that are unable to bind Ca2+ partially resemble those devoid of the ntp1+ gene in terms of trehalose hyperaccumulation. Gel filtration of cell extracts from wild-type cells after EDTA treatment or from cells containing Ntp1p with mutations in aspartic acid residues within the Ca2+-binding site revealed that Ntp1p eluted mainly in an inactive conformation instead of the dimeric or trimeric active form of the enzyme. These results suggest that activation of S. pombe Ntp1p under different conditions depends upon Ca2+ binding through the Ca2+-binding motif as a prerequisite for correct enzyme oligomerization to its active form. Given the high degree of conservation of the Ca2+ accommodation site, this might be a general mechanism regulating neutral trehalase activity in other yeasts and filamentous fungi. 
6321448	19840301	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	The dispersed, repeated family of MAL loci in Saccharomyces spp.	This report concludes our analysis of the various standard maltose-fermenting strains of Saccharomyces spp. We showed that, in addition to either the MAL2 or MAL4 functional locus present in the standard MAL2 and MAL4 strains, both strains contain two cryptic MALg genes mapping to the MAL1 and MAL3 locus positions. (Functional MAL loci appear to consist of two linked complementing gene functions, MALp and MALg. Cryptic MALg genes lack a linked functional MALp gene.) Using a probe containing a DNA fragment derived from the MAL6 locus, we detected three genomic HindIII fragments in both the MAL2 and MAL4 strains. Each of these HindIII fragments is shown to segregate in a Mendelian fashion and to be linked to one of the three MAL loci in each of the strains. We also detected additional fragments having significant sequence homology to the MAL6 probe but lacking in MAL-related functions. 
23835170	20130710	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Deletion of creB in Aspergillus oryzae increases secreted hydrolytic enzyme activity.	Aspergillus oryzae has been used in the food and beverage industry for centuries, and industrial strains have been produced by multiple rounds of selection. Targeted gene deletion technology is particularly useful for strain improvement in such strains, particularly when they do not have a well-characterized meiotic cycle. Phenotypes of an Aspergillus nidulans strain null for the CreB deubiquitinating enzyme include effects on growth and repression, including increased activity levels of various enzymes. We show that Aspergillus oryzae contains a functional homologue of the CreB deubiquitinating enzyme and that a null strain shows increased activity levels of industrially important secreted enzymes, including cellulases, xylanases, amylases, and proteases, as well as alleviated inhibition of spore germination on glucose medium. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) analysis showed that the increased levels of enzyme activity in both Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus oryzae are mirrored at the transcript level, indicating transcriptional regulation. We report that Aspergillus oryzae DAR3699, originally isolated from soy fermentation, has a similar phenotype to that of a creB deletion mutant of the RIB40 strain, and it contains a mutation in the creB gene. Collectively, the results for Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus nidulans, Trichoderma reesei, and Penicillium decumbens show that deletion of creB may be broadly useful in diverse fungi for increasing production of a variety of enzymes. 
1369269	19900601	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Integration of heterologous genes into the chromosome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae using a delta sequence of yeast retrotransposon Ty.	Distribution of a delta (delta) sequence of the Ty element on a chromosome of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae was analysed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. More than 100 copies of the delta sequence were nonrandomly distributed on the chromosome. Using the delta sequence as a recombination site, mouse alpha-amylase and human beta-endorphin genes were introduced into the chromosomal DNA. The integration occurred on a particular chromosome in each case and the copy number was estimated as three to five. It was also found that single- or multi-copy integration occurred at a single or multiple sites on the particular chromosome. The integrants secreted alpha-amylase and beta-endorphin by three-to fivefold compared with single-copy integrants. This type of integration was mitotically stable over a period of 50 generations under non-selective conditions. 
21327387	20110218	Plant_Cell_Rep.	D016428 D013485 	Transgene stacking and marker elimination in transgenic rice by sequential Agrobacterium-mediated co-transformation with the same selectable marker gene.	Rice chitinase (chi11) and tobacco osmotin (ap24) genes, which cause disruption of fungal cell wall and cell membrane, respectively, were stacked in transgenic rice to develop resistance against the sheath blight disease. The homozygous marker-free transgenic rice line CoT23 which harboured the rice chi11 transgene was sequentially re-transformed with a second transgene ap24 by co-transformation using an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain harbouring a single-copy cointegrate vector pGV2260::pSSJ1 and a multi-copy binary vector pBin19∆nptII-ap24 in the same cell. pGV2260::pSSJ1 T-DNA carried the hygromycin phosphotransferase (hph) and β-glucuronidase (gus) genes. pBin19∆nptII-ap24 T-DNA harboured the tobacco osmotin (ap24) gene. Co-transformation of the gene of interest (ap24) with the selectable marker gene (SMG, hph) occurred in 12 out of 18 T(0) plants (67%). Segregation of hph from ap24 was accomplished in the T(1) generation in one (line 11) of the four analysed co-transformed plants. The presence of ap24 and chi11 transgenes and the absence of the hph gene in the SMG-eliminated T(1) plants of the line 11 were confirmed by DNA blot analyses. The SMG-free transgenic plants of the line 11 harboured a single copy of the ap24 gene. Homozygous, SMG-free T(2) plants of the transgenic line 11 harboured stacked transgenes, chi11 and ap24. Northern blot analysis of the SMG-free plants revealed constitutive expression of chi11 and ap24. The transgenic plants with stacked transgenes displayed high levels of resistance against Rhizoctonia solani. Thus, we demonstrate the development of transgene-stacked and marker-free transgenic rice by sequential Agrobacterium-mediated co-transformation with the same SMG. 
16946258	20060902	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Trehalose metabolism is important for heat stress tolerance and spore germination of Botrytis cinerea.	To analyse the role of trehalose as stress protectant and carbon storage compound in the grey mould fungus Botrytis cinerea, mutants defective in trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (TPS1) and neutral trehalase (TRE1) were constructed. The Deltatps1 mutant was unable to synthesize trehalose, whereas the Deltatre1 mutant showed elevated trehalose levels compared to the wild-type and was unable to mobilize trehalose during conidial germination. Both mutants showed normal vegetative growth and were not affected in plant pathogenicity. Growth of the Deltatps1 mutant was more heat sensitive compared to the wild-type. Similarly, Deltatps1 conidia showed a shorter survival under heat stress, and their viability at moderate temperatures was strongly reduced. In germinating wild-type conidia, rapid trehalose degradation occurred only when germination was induced in the presence of nutrients. In contrast, little trehalose breakdown was observed during germination on hydrophobic surfaces in water. Here, addition of cAMP to conidia induced trehalose mobilization and accelerated the germination process, probably by activation of TRE1. In accordance with these data, both mutants showed germination defects only in the presence of sugars but not on hydrophobic surfaces in the absence of nutrients. The data indicate that in B. cinerea trehalose serves as a stress protectant, and also as a significant but not essential carbon source for germination when external nutrients are low. In addition, evidence was obtained that trehalose 6-phosphate plays a role as a regulator of glycolysis during germination. 
23700144	20130524	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Mastery of cultural conditions and physico-chemical properties improves the production and the catalytic efficiency of bglG.	Stachybotrys microspora is a filamentous fungus secreting multiple β-glucosidases. Two of them were characterized. The third one, named bglG, was also characterized and used for various investigations. The current work undertakes the plausible role played by some cultural conditions and physico-chemical properties to improve bglG time course synthesis and also its catalytic efficiency. Indeed, bglG time course synthesis is slightly affected by light, but it is clearly affected by aeration and presence of baffle. On the same case, optimization of substrate and enzyme concentration contributes to the improvement of the catalytic efficiency of bglG. This biocatalyst tolerates a high ionic strength during its activity assay; β-mercaptoethanol increases the enzymatic rate. BglG has the capacity to hydrolyse efficiently oleuropéin, with a recovery of 88%. 
19697057	20090822	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Effects of sugar beet chitinase IV on root-associated fungal community of transgenic silver birch in a field trial.	Heterogenous chitinases have been introduced in many plant species with the aim to increase the resistance of plants to fungal diseases. We studied the effects of the heterologous expression of sugar beet chitinase IV on the intensity of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) colonization and the structure of fungal communities in the field trial of 15 transgenic and 8 wild-type silver birch (Betula pendula Roth) genotypes. Fungal sequences were separated in denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and identified by sequencing the ITS1 region to reveal the operational taxonomic units. ECM colonization was less intense in 7 out of 15 transgenic lines than in the corresponding non-transgenic control plants, but the slight decrease in overall ECM colonization in transgenic lines could not be related to sugar beet chitinase IV expression or total endochitinase activity. One transgenic line showing fairly weak sugar beet chitinase IV expression without significantly increased total endochitinase activity differed significantly from the non-transgenic controls in the structure of fungal community. Five sequences belonging to three different fungal genera (Hebeloma, Inocybe, Laccaria) were indicative of wild-type genotypes, and one sequence (Lactarius) indicated one transgenic line. In cluster analysis, the non-transgenic control grouped together with the transgenic lines indicating that genotype was a more important factor determining the structure of fungal communities than the transgenic status of the plants. With the tested birch lines, no clear evidence for the effect of the heterologous expression of sugar beet chitinase IV on ECM colonization or the structure of fungal community was found. 
7384013	19800301	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Preparation of protoplasts and localization of ribonuclease, beta-1,3-glucanase and glucosoisomerase in the fungal mycelium of Penicillium brevi-compactum].	Optimal conditions for the formation and isolation of protoplasts from the fungus Penicillium brevi-compactum were investigated. Localization of ribonuclease, glucosoisomerase and beta-1,3-glucanase in the mycelium was examined. To produce protoplasts, the mycelium was treated for 3-4 hours at 40 degrees C with the incubation mixture, containing chitinase from Actinomyces kurssanovii, lytic enzymes from Act. cellulose, lysozyme and 0.8 M mannitol as an osmotic stabilizer. The levels of activities of RNase, beta-1,3-glucanase, and glucosoisomerase were measured in the fungal mycelium before preparation of protoplasts, in the incubation mixture after their preparation, and in the protoplast lysate. The protoplast formation facilitated the release of RNase, beta-1,3-glucanase and glucosoisomerase from the fungal mycelium into the incubation mixture. 
20512738	20100601	J_Environ_Sci_Health_B	D016428 D013485 	Biodegradation and microbial community changes upon shrimp shell wastes amended in mangrove river sediment.	Chitin, a homopolymer of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) residues linked by beta 1-4 bonds, is the most abundant renewable natural resource after cellulose. It is widely distributed in nature as the integuments of crustaceans and insects and as a component of fungi and algae. This study investigated the effects of a bifunctional chitinase/lysozyme-producing strain, Pseudomonas aeruginosa K-187, on degradation of shrimp shells and the survival conditions of bacterial strains in mangrove river sediment of Tamsui River. The structures of the whole bacterial community of the samples were measured by using polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) technique. Results show that three bacterial strains (Acrobacter sp., Shewanella sp., and Marinobacterium sp.) which originated from the mangrove river sediment were found predominant in the 6 days-incubation sample of P. aeruginosa K-187 amended mangrove river sediment. Meanwhile, biomass, reducing sugar, and total sugar were found highest in the 6 weeks-incubation sample of shrimp shell powder and P. aeruginosa K-187-amended mangrove river sediment. According to the results, we assumed that the amendment of P. aeruginosa K-187 can enhance the biodegradation of shrimp shells in the seawater containing mangrove river sediment. We hope that these findings may provide some useful information for the reclamation of chitin-containing wastes in our environment. 
24415243	20140114	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Effect of carbon source on the β-glucosidase system of the thermophilic fungus Humicola grisea.	H. grisea produced an extracellular β-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21) at high activity in media supplemented with carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) or cellobiose. Cellobiose-induced β-glucosidase was insensitive to glucose repression whereas that of CMC-supplemented cultures was partially repressed. Molecular sieving revealed three main active components (Mr 50, 128 and 240 kDa). Glucose competitively inhibited β-glucosidase activities with Ki values of 0.9MM and 3.3MM (extracellular) and 10.2MM and 22.6MM (cytosolic), induced in the presence of CMC or cellobiose respectively.  
19445185	20090519	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Cloning of the gene encoding alpha-glucosidase from aspergillus niger and its expression in Pichia pastoris].	Alpha-glucosidase from Aspergillus niger SG136 was expressed in Pichia pastoris. cDNA of mature alpha-glucosidase (aglu) was amplified from the total DNA of A. niger SG136 by PCR and overlap-PCR with primers designed based on the sequence of A. niger CBS 513.88 in NCBI database. The gene was cloned into pMD18-T simple vector. The sequencing result showed that the gene encoded for a protein of 960 amino acids residues, which was 1 amino acid different from that of A. niger CBS 513.88. The expression vector pPIC9K-aglu was constructed by subcloning the gene into plasmid pPIC9K, and then transformed into P. pastoris through electroporation after linearized by Bgl II digestion. The recombinant P. pastoris KM71/pPIC9K-aglu were screened in MD and YPD/G418 plates,and identified by PCR. In shaking culture condition, methanol was added to a final concentration of 1% to induce the secretion of alpha-glucosidase. Electrophoresis analysis of KM71/pPIC9K-aglu culture supernatant showed that there were two major protein bands corresponding to 98 kDa and 33 kDa respectively in SDS-PAGE, and there was only one band in Native PAGE; while in the control experiment of KM71/pPIC9K, there were no visible bands. Transglucosidation reaction from crude enzyme revealed that contents of isomaltooligosaccharides were up to 26.0% under the optimal conditions of pH 5 and 60 degrees C at 24 h. A. niger alpha-glucosidase was expressed in P. pastoris with transglucosidation activity. 
15081808	20040415	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	The crystal structure of feruloyl esterase A from Aspergillus niger suggests evolutive functional convergence in feruloyl esterase family.	As a component of the array of enzymes produced by micro-organisms to deconstruct plant cell walls, feruloyl esterases hydrolyze phenolic groups involved in the cross-linking of arabinoxylan to other polymeric structures. This is important for opening the cell wall structure, making material more accessible to glycosyl hydrolases. Here, we describe the first crystal structure of the non-modular type-A feruloyl esterase from Aspergillus niger (AnFaeA) solved at 2.5A resolution. AnFaeA displays an alpha/beta hydrolase fold similar to that found in fungal lipases and different from that reported for other feruloyl esterases. Crystallographic and site-directed mutagenesis studies allow us to identify the catalytic triad (Ser133-His247-Asp194) that forms the catalytic machinery of this enzyme. The active-site cavity is confined by a lid (residues 68-80), on the analogy of lipases, and by a loop (residues 226-244) that confers plasticity to the substrate-binding site. The lid presents a high ratio of polar residues, which in addition to a unique N-glycosylation site stabilises the lid in an open conformation, conferring the esterase character to this enzyme. A putative model for bound 5,5'-diferulic acid-linked arabinoxylan has been built, pointing to the more relevant residues involved in substrate recognition. Comparison with structurally related lipases reveals that subtle amino acid and conformational changes within a highly conserved protein fold may produce protein variants endowed with new enzymatic properties, while comparison with functionally related proteins points to a functional convergence after evolutionary divergence within the feruloyl esterases family. 
12325291	20020928	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 D016454 	[Cellulases from microorganisms].	Compositions of cellulase-hemicellulase systems of aerobic fungi (hyphomycetes, ascomycetes, and basidiomycetes), aerobic bacteria, actinomycetes, as well as anaerobic fungi and bacteria, are considered in the context of modern structural classification of glycosyl hydrolases. A new nomenclature of cellulases and relative enzymes based on their structural classification is reviewed. Some opportunities of cellulase improvement by means of protein engineering are discussed. 
22738957	20120629	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulolytic microbes in the Yanbaru, a subtropical rainforest with an endemic biota on Okinawa Island, Japan.	Cellulolytic microbes in the soil of the Yanbaru, a subtropical forest with an endemic biota, on Okinawa Island, were isolated and characterized in a search for novel microbial strains with biotechnological potential. Soil samples of the Yanbaru were suspended in sterilized water, inoculated on mineral salt agar overlaid with a filter paper as carbon source, and cultivated aerobically at 30 °C. After 2 weeks of cultivation, emerging colonies were isolated and subjected to phylogenetic and enzyme analyses. The phylogenetic analyses revealed bacterial and fungal isolates belonging to nine and three genera respectively. All isolates possessed cellulase activity, and several strains showed strong activity comparable to Trichoderma cellulase. Many isolates also exhibited xylanase activity. 
14646097	20031204	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic studies of alpha-galactosidase I from Mortierella vinacea.	alpha-Galactosidases catalyze the hydrolysis of a galactosyl residue from galactooligosaccharides and galactopolysaccharides. alpha-Galactosidase I from Mortierella vinacea was crystallized in two crystal forms using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. Type 1 crystals belonged to space group I422, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 142.4, c = 131.5 A, and diffracted to beyond 2.1 A resolution, while type 2 crystals belonged to space group P4, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 100.9, c = 102.7 A, and diffracted to beyond 1.6 A resolution. This enzyme crystallized as a glycoprotein tetramer and the tetrameric structure was located around the crystallographic fourfold axis. 
11675029	20011025	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Syntheses and activities as trehalase inhibitors of N-arylglycosylamines derived from fluorinated anilines.	Twelve N-arylglycosylamines were prepared in a one-pot reaction by treatment of D-glucose, D-galactose, D-mannose or D-xylose with fluorinated anilines in the presence of small amount of hydrochloric acid. The inhibitory activity against porcine trehalase and the fungicidal activity of the title compounds toward Rhizoctonia solani have been tested. 
16054903	20050802	Chemosphere	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Biodegradation and detoxification of organophosphate insecticide, malathion by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. pisi cutinase.	Efficiencies of two lypolytic enzymes (fungal cutinase and yeast esterase) in malathion degradation were investigated. Surprisingly, degradation rate of malathion by fungal cutinase was very high, i.e. almost 60% of initial malathion (500 mg l(-1)) was decomposed within 0.5 h, and nearly 50% of the degraded malathion disappeared within initial 15 min. With the yeast esterase, despite the same concentration, more than 65% of malathion remained even after 2-day treatment. During enzymatic degradation of malathion, two malathion-derived compounds were detected, and time-course changes in composition were also monitored. In the degradation by both fungal cutinase and yeast esterase, two additional organic chemicals were produced from malathion: malathion monoacid (MMA) and malathion diacid (MDA) by ester hydrolysis. Final chemical composition after 2 d was significantly dependent on the enzyme used. Fungal cutinase produced MDA as a major degradation compound. However in the malathion degradation by yeast esterase, an isomer of MMA was produced in abundance in addition to MDA. Toxic effects of malathion and its final degradation products were investigated using various recombinant bioluminescent bacteria. As a result, the degradation products (including MMA) by esterase severely caused membrane damage and inhibition of protein synthesis in bacterial cells, while in the fungal cutinase processes, malathion was significantly degraded to non-toxic MDA after the extended period (2 days). 
3250348	19880701	Arch_Inst_Pasteur_Tunis	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Comparative study of the growth of Trichoderma reesei and Penicillium occitanie].	During the last years, a great deal of research on the production of energetic substances was directed to the use of cellulosic by-products. A technique of special interest is the production of fermentissible sugars by the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose. Mandels and Reese (1960) showed that a fungi strain of Trichoderma reesei is the best performant microorganism in the production of cellulolytic enzymes. Nevertheless, recent investigation indicated that the rate and the yield of conversion of cellulose to glucose of this strain are limited by its poor beta-glucosidase activity. In order to increase the efficiency of the hydrolytic power of the cellulasic complex two approaches can be considered. Beta-glucosidase enrichment of Trichoderma reesei enzymes. The selection and use of strains with a better performance. In our laboratory, we chose the second approach using Penicillium occitanie comparing it to Trichoderma reesei. 
10330187	19990518	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Yeast VSM1 encodes a v-SNARE binding protein that may act as a negative regulator of constitutive exocytosis.	We have screened for proteins that interact with v-SNAREs of the late secretory pathway in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A novel protein, designated Vsm1, binds tightly to the Snc2 v-SNARE in the two-hybrid system and can be coimmunoprecipitated with Snc1 or Snc2 from solubilized yeast cell extracts. Disruption of the VSM1 gene results in an increase of proteins secreted into the medium but does not affect the processing or secretion of invertase. In contrast, VSM1 overexpression in cells which bear a temperature-sensitive mutation in the Sec9 t-SNARE (sec9-4 cells) results in the accumulation of non-invertase-containing low-density secretory vesicles, inhibits cell growth and the secretion of proteins into the medium, and blocks rescue of the temperature-sensitive phenotype by SNC1 overexpression. Yet, VSM1 overexpression does not affect yeast bearing a sec9-7 allele which, in contrast to sec9-4, encodes a t-SNARE protein capable of forming a stable SNARE complex in vitro at restrictive temperatures. On the basis of these results, we propose that Vsm1 is a novel v-SNARE-interacting protein that appears to act as negative regulator of constitutive exocytosis. Moreover, this regulation appears specific to one of two parallel exocytic paths which are operant in yeast cells. 
22265304	20120124	Food_Microbiol.	D016428 	Efficacy of killer yeasts in the biological control of Penicillium digitatum on Tarocco orange fruits (Citrus sinensis).	Killer Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Wickerhamomyces anomalus yeast strains were tested as biocontrol agents against Penicillium digitatum, one the most important causes of postharvest decay in orange fruits. W. anomalus, grown on acidified medium, demonstrated micocinogenic activity against P. digitatum, as indicated by large inhibition halos and hyphal damage resulting from β-glucanase activity. Oranges that had been deliberately inoculated with pathogens were protected from decay by W. anomalus. Inoculation of oranges with W. anomalus strains BS 91 and BS 92 reduced disease severity to 1 and 4%, respectively, for up to 10 days in storage. 
3141213	19881107	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Similar short elements in the 5' regions of the STA2 and SGA genes from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The 5' region of the SGA and STA2 genes, encoding the intra- and extracellular glucoamylases, respectively, from Saccharomyces cerevisiae have been sequenced. In addition, the transcription initiation sites have been determined. Four distinct short elements (named I to IV) were found in both genes. Element III has the consensus sequence PuCATTTAPiG with a bilateral symmetry around the central T, and is present in both genes as a direct repeat. This motive seems responsible for the coregulation of STA2 and SGA by the repressor STA10 gene of S. cerevisiae. 
24195376	20131108	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Identification and characterization of Aspergillus aculeatus JMUdb058 for naringinase production].	A new naringinase-producing strain, JMUdb058 was identified and characterized. The strain was identified by morphological observation and 28S rDNA homogeneous analysis. Naringinase was identified by monitoring the hydrolysis of naringin to prunin and naringenin using a reversed phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC). The regulation of naringinase expression was studied by measuring naringinase activity of 11 different carbon sources and 7 nitrogen sources in shaking cultivation. The naringinase-producing capacity was investigated in both solid-state fermentation and submerged fermentation. The macro-morphology and micro-morphology of JMUdb058 corresponded to the characteristics of Aspergillus section Nigri Gams, and the 28S rDNA sequences showed homogeneity at 100% to Aspergillus aculeatus. Crude enzymes prepared by both submerged fermentation and solid-state fermentation could hydrolyze naringin to prunin and naringenin. In addition, the enzyme could remove naringin from citrus juice effectively. Carbon resources, including hesperidin, naringin, rutin and rhamnose, and organic nitrogen resources, i. e., tryptone, soybean meal, yeast extract and corn syrup were shown to express the naringinase. The strain had an outstanding ability to yield naringinase in the solid-state fermentation, which showed an alpha-L-rhamnosidase activity of 5903 U/gds by HPLC, and the naringinase of 1939U/gds by HPLC and 72232 U/gds by Davis method. It is the first time to report a stain of Aspergillus aculeatus can produce naringinase, carbon source containing rhamnose groups are able to induce the enzyme expression. The stain JMUdb058 is a new microorganism source for high yield of naringinase, in particularly by the solid-state fermentation. 
11191627	20010224	Life_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Structurally dissimilar proteins with antiviral and antifungal potency from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) seeds.	Evidence is presented for the existence of multiple proteins with antifungal and antiviral potency in cowpea seeds. The two proteins, designated alpha- and beta-antifungal proteins in accordance with their order of elution from the CM-Sepharose column, were capable of inhibiting human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reverse transcriptase and one of the glycohydrolases associated with HIV infection, alpha-glucosidase, but beta-glucuronidase was not repressed. The ability of the proteins in retarding mycelial growth of a variety of fungi was also demonstrated with alpha-antifungal protein being more potent in most of the cases. Beta-antifungal protein was more active in only one instance. Both antifungal proteins had low cell-free translation-inhibitory activity. The proteins were adsorbed on Affi-gel blue gel-and CM-Sepharose but could be separated from one another during chromatography on the latter medium by means of a linear NaCl concentration gradient. Different molecular weights were exhibited by the proteins, being 28 kDa and 12 kDa respectively for alpha- and beta- antifungal proteins. Alpha-antifungal protein was characterized by an N-terminal sequence showing close resemblance to sequences of chitinases. Beta-antifungal protein exhibited an N-terminal sequence hitherto unknown in the literature. 
14980547	20040226	Transfus_Clin_Biol	D016428 D016454 	Universal red blood cells--enzymatic conversion of blood group A and B antigens.	Accidental transfusion of ABO-incompatible red blood cells (RBCs) is a leading cause of fatal transfusion reactions. To prevent this and to create a universal blood supply, the idea of converting blood group A and B antigens to H using specific exo-glycosidases capable of removing the immunodominant sugar residues was pioneered by Goldstein and colleagues at the New York Blood Center in the early 1980s. Conversion of group B RBCs to O was initially carried out with alpha-galactosidase extracted from coffee beans. These enzyme-converted O (ECO) RBCs appeared to survive normally in all recipients independent of blood group. The clinical trials moved from small infusions to single RBC units and finally multiple and repeated transfusions. A successful phase II trial utilizing recombinant enzyme was reported by Kruskall and colleagues in 2000. Enzymatic conversion of group A RBCs has lagged behind due to lack of appropriate glycosidases and the more complex nature of A antigens. Identification of novel bacterial glycosidases with improved kinetic properties and specificities for the A and B antigens has greatly advanced the field. Conversion of group A RBCs can be achieved with improved glycosidases and the conversion conditions for both A and B antigens optimized to use more cost-efficient quantities of enzymes and gentler conditions including neutral pH and short incubation times at room temperature. Of the different strategies envisioned to create a universal blood supply, the ECO concept is the only one, for which human clinical trials have been performed. This paper discusses some biochemical and clinical aspects of this developing technology. 
22095443	20111119	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D023362 D016428 	Evaluation of the energy efficiency of enzyme fermentation by mechanistic modeling.	Modeling biotechnological processes is key to obtaining increased productivity and efficiency. Particularly crucial to successful modeling of such systems is the coupling of the physical transport phenomena and the biological activity in one model. We have applied a model for the expression of cellulosic enzymes by the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei and found excellent agreement with experimental data. The most influential factor was demonstrated to be viscosity and its influence on mass transfer. Not surprisingly, the biological model is also shown to have high influence on the model prediction. At different rates of agitation and aeration as well as headspace pressure, we can predict the energy efficiency of oxygen transfer, a key process parameter for economical production of industrial enzymes. An inverse relationship between the productivity and energy efficiency of the process was found. This modeling approach can be used by manufacturers to evaluate the enzyme fermentation process for a range of different process conditions with regard to energy efficiency. 
20582640	20100629	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production and characterization of cellobiohydrolase from a novel strain of Penicillium purpurogenum KJS506.	A high cellobiohydrolase (CBH)-producing strain was isolated and identified as Penicillium purpurogenum KJS506 according to the morphology and comparison of internal transcribed spacer rDNA gene sequence. When rice straw and corn steep powder were used as carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively, a maximum CBH activity of 2.6 U mg-protein(-1), one of the highest among CBH-producing microorganisms, was obtained. The optimum temperature and pH for CBH production were 30 °C and 4.0, respectively. The increased production of CBH in P. purpurogenum culture at 30 °C was confirmed by two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by MS/MS sequencing of the partial peptide. The internal amino acid sequences of P. purpurogenum CBH showed a significant homology with hydrolases from glycoside hydrolase family 7. The extracellular CBH was purified to homogeneity by sequential chromatography of P. purpurogenum culture supernatants on a DEAE-sepharose column, a gel filtration column, and then on a Mono Q column with fast-protein liquid chromatography. The purified CBH was a monomeric protein with a molecular weight of 60 kDa and showed broad substrate specificity with maximum activity towards p-nitrophenyl β-D: -cellobiopyranoside. P. purpurogenum CBH showed t (1/2) value of 4 h at 60 °C and V (max) value of 11.9 μmol min(-1) mg-protein(-1) for p-nitrophenyl-D: -cellobiopyranoside. Although CBHs have been reported, the high specific activity distinguishes P. purpurogenum CBH. 
22529898	20120425	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	A 3-year study reveals that plant growth stage, season and field site affect soil fungal communities while cultivar and GM-trait have minor effects.	In this three year field study the impact of different potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) cultivars including a genetically modified (GM) amylopectin-accumulating potato line on rhizosphere fungal communities are investigated using molecular microbiological methods. The effects of growth stage of a plant, soil type and year on the rhizosphere fungi were included in this study. To compare the effects, one GM cultivar, the parental isoline, and four non-related cultivars were planted in the fields and analysed using T-RFLP on the basis of fungal phylum specific primers combined with multivariate statistical methods. Additionally, fungal biomass and some extracellular fungal enzymes (laccases, Mn-peroxidases and cellulases) were quantified in order to gain insight into the function of the fungal communities. Plant growth stage and year (and agricultural management) had the strongest effect on both diversity and function of the fungal communities while the GM-trait studied was the least explanatory factor. The impact of cultivar and soil type was intermediate. Occasional differences between cultivars, the amylopectin-accumulating potato line, and its parental variety were detected, but these differences were mostly transient in nature and detected either only in one soil, one growth stage or one year. 
1368719	19910701	Agric._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Efficient production of Taka-amylase A by Trichoderma viride.	An efficient heterologous protein production system was developed in Trichoderma viride, a very efficient cellulase producer. An expression vector containing the Taka-amylase A gene from Aspergillus oryzae, which was fused to the strong promoter and signal peptide sequence of the cellobiohydrolase 1 gene (cbh1) of T. viride, and the hygromycin B resistance gene was used to transform protoplasts of T. viride. Using hygromycin B resistance, a frequency of 3 transformants per microgram DNA on average was obtained. One transformant showed highly elevated alpha-amylase production, 1.0 g/l, which was shown to be under the control of the cbh1 gene promoter. Analysis of the chromosomal DNA of the transformant showed the integration of more than one copy of the vector. 
3014435	19860625	Nucleic_Acids_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning of the STA2 and SGA genes encoding glucoamylases in yeasts and regulation of their expression by the STA10 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The Saccharomyces STA2 and SGA genes, encoding the extracellular and intracellular sporulation-specific glucoamylase respectively, have been cloned and their transcription and regulation studied. The STA2 gene differs from the SGA gene in that it contains an extra piece of DNA, which encodes the domain for exportation of the extracellular glucoamylase. The STA2 gene produces a single 2.85 kb transcript. Transcription of the SGA gene is initiated from two different sites, yielding two transcripts of 1.95 and 2.40 kb. Transcription of both STA2 and SGA genes is repressed by the STA10 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
3309160	19870301	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 	Characterization of binding of human fibrinogen to the surface of germ-tubes and mycelium of candida albicans.	The binding of human fibrinogen to germ-tubes and mycelium of Candida albicans, forms usually found in infected tissues, was studied in vitro by an immunofluorescence assay. Binding was quantified by using 125I-labelled fibrinogen. The degree of binding differed according to the morphological form of the fungus. Binding relative to that of the yeast form was greater for mycelium (12-fold) than for germ-tube (7.7-fold). Pretreatment of yeasts with fragments D and E (terminal degradation products of fibrinogen) before fibrinogen binding showed that fragment D possessed a higher affinity for C. albicans than fragment E. Binding of fibrinogen was diminished when C. albicans was pretreated with 2-mercaptoethanol alone or in combination with pronase, or pretreated with alpha-mannosidase or trypsin. Binding was not decreased by pretreatment with pronase alone or chitinase. Inhibition experiments using C. albicans dialysed culture filtrate, C. albicans mannan, chitin, sugars or amino sugars were done by preabsorbing the fibrinogen with each of the above mentioned compounds. C. albicans dialysed culture filtrate inhibited the binding more strongly than C. albicans mannan. However, fibrinogen binding to C. albicans was not significantly reduced by mannose, several other sugars or chitin. These studies demonstrate the existence of a fibrinogen-binding factor (FBF) strongly associated with the surface of germ-tube and filamentous forms of C. albicans, and indicate a possible role for FBF in the pathogenicity of C. albicans. 
11311718	20010420	Int._J._Biol._Macromol.	D016428 	Primary structure deduction and molecular modelling from a cDNA of a cellobiohydrolase-like protein from the white-rot fungus Coriolus versicolor.	Molecular cloning and cDNA sequencing analysis were used to elucidate the primary structure of a cellulase-like structure from the white-rot fungus Coriolus versicolor. The cDNA of interest was isolated from a cDNA library obtained from C. versicolor mycelia grown on cellulase inducer medium. A pattern search showed that this cellulase belongs to the glycosyl hydrolases family 6. From the deduced amino acid sequence, models of the binding and catalytic domains were built by homology modelling. The constructed models present a typical cellulose-binding domain at the N-terminal region, a rich Pro, Ser, Thr linker peptide, and a catalytic domain at the C-terminus region. 
18499583	20080524	Protein_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Crystal structures of Melanocarpus albomyces cellobiohydrolase Cel7B in complex with cello-oligomers show high flexibility in the substrate binding.	Cellobiohydrolase from Melanocarpus albomyces (Cel7B) is a thermostable, single-module, cellulose-degrading enzyme. It has relatively low catalytic activity under normal temperatures, which allows structural studies of the binding of unmodified substrates to the native enzyme. In this study, we have determined the crystal structure of native Ma Cel7B free and in complex with three different cello-oligomers: cellobiose (Glc(2)), cellotriose (Glc(3)), and cellotetraose (Glc(4)), at high resolution (1.6-2.1 A). In each case, four molecules were found in the asymmetric unit, which provided 12 different complex structures. The overall fold of the enzyme is characteristic of a glycoside hydrolase family 7 cellobiohydrolase, where the loops extending from the core beta-sandwich structure form a long tunnel composed of multiple subsites for the binding of the glycosyl units of a cellulose chain. The catalytic residues at the reducing end of the tunnel are conserved, and the mechanism is expected to be retaining similarly to the other family 7 members. The oligosaccharides in different complex structures occupied different subsite sets, which partly overlapped and ranged from -5 to +2. In four cellotriose and one cellotetraose complex structures, the cello-oligosaccharide also spanned over the cleavage site (-1/+1). There were surprisingly large variations in the amino acid side chain conformations and in the positions of glycosyl units in the different cello-oligomer complexes, particularly at subsites near the catalytic site. However, in each complex structure, all glycosyl residues were in the chair (4C(1)) conformation. Implications in relation to the complex structures with respect to the reaction mechanism are discussed. 
811760	19751101	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 	Production of ethylene and other volatiles and changes in cellulase and laccase activities during the life cycle of the cultivated mushroom, Agaricus bisporus.	Nine volatile hydrocarbons, as well as methyl chloride, carbonyl sulphide and carbon disulphide, have been identified by mass spectrometry as products of Agaricus bisporus in the compost used in comerical mushroom beds. Of these, only ethylene showed a pattern of production that could be correlated with developmental phases of the crop, high levels being produced whenever fruit bodies were rapidly enlarging. In laboratory flask cultures, under controlled conditions, high levels of ethylene occurred whenever young fruit bodies entered the expansion phase. The enhanced rate of ethylene production continued over several days, irrespective of whether fruit bodies were removed. Production occurred within the colonized compost; no ethylene was evolved by the fruit body itself. When the first fruit bodies expanded, either in beds or culture flasks, laccase levels in the compost fell and those of a beta-1,4-glucanase (cellulase) rose. The enzyme switch occurred once only, during maturation of the first fruit bodies, whereas an elevated ethylene production was associated with each occasion when fruit body maturation took place. The low level of laccase and high of cellulase characterized the whole of the reproductive stage of A. bisporus, whereas the phasic periods of high ethylene production distinguished between periods of fruit body maturation and intervening resting periods. 
20812235	20100903	Eur._J._Immunol.	D016428 D013485 	Chitin induces upregulation of B7-H1 on macrophages and inhibits T-cell proliferation.	Chitin is a highly abundant glycopolymer, which serves as structural component in fungi, arthropods and crustaceans but is not synthesized by vertebrates. However, vertebrates express chitinases and chitinase-like proteins, some of which are induced by infection with helminths suggesting that chitinous structures may be targets of the immune system. The chitin-induced modulations of the innate and adaptive immune responses are not well understood. Here, we demonstrate that intranasal administration of OVA and chitin resulted in diminished T-cell expansion and Th2 polarization as compared with OVA administration alone. Chitin did not promote nor attenuate Th2 polarization in vitro. Chitin-exposed macrophages inhibited proliferation of CD4(+) T cells in a cell-cell contact-dependent manner. Chitin induced upregulation of the inhibitory ligand B7-H1 (PD-L1) on macrophages independently of MyD88, TRIF, TLR2, TLR3, TLR4 and Stat6. Inhibition of T-cell proliferation was largely dependent on B7-H1, as the effect was not observed in cocultures with cells from B7-H1-deficient mice. 
21265870	20110127	FEMS_Microbiol._Ecol.	D016428 D013485 	Ectomycorrhizal hyphae structure components of the soil bacterial community for decreased phosphatase production.	Ectomycorrhizal fungi (EMF) provide nutrients to their hosts by means of hyphae that extend beyond nutrient-depleted rhizosphere soil. Soil bacteria may compete with EMF for nutrients or may act synergistically to enhance nutrient supply to hosts. To assess the interactions between hyphae and bacteria, two types of small, sand-filled mesh bags were incubated in a Pseudotsuga menziesii/Betula papyrifera forest. The bags allowed ingrowth by EMF (35-μm mesh) or excluded hyphae (0.5-μm mesh), while allowing migration of soil bacteria. After incubation, bacteria were isolated from bags using a method to enrich for Gram-positive bacteria. Isolates were assayed for phosphatase and N-acetyl glucosaminidase (NAGase) activities to assess the potential to access organic phosphorus and nitrogen. The average phosphatase activities were higher in exclusion than ingrowth bags, while NAGase activities did not differ. Streptomyces isolates, which are expected to be strong competitors and antagonists of EMF, were more prevalent in ingrowth bags and yet had lower phosphatase activities. Furthermore, there were no indications of antagonism between fungi and Streptomyces, as there were no increases in NAGase activities in ingrowth bags. We conclude that fungal hyphae can structure components of the soil bacterial community for decreased extracellular enzyme production. 
16666142	19880601	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Antifungal Hydrolases in Pea Tissue : I. Purification and Characterization of Two Chitinases and Two beta-1,3-Glucanases Differentially Regulated during Development and in Response to Fungal Infection.	Chitinase and beta-1,-3-glucanase activities increased coordinately in pea (Pisum sativum L. cv "Dot") pods during development and maturation and when immature pea pods were inoculated with compatible or incompatible strains of Fusarium solani or wounded or treated with chitosan or ethylene. Up to five major soluble, basic proteins accumulated in stressed immature pods and in maturing untreated pods. After separation of these proteins by chromatofocusing, an enzymic function could be assigned to four of them: two were chitinases and two were beta-1,3-glucanases. The different molecular forms of chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase were differentially regulated. Chitinase Ch1 (mol wt 33,100) and beta-1,3-glucanase G2 (mol wt 34,300) were strongly induced in immature tissue in response to the various stresses, while chitinase Ch2 (mol wt 36,200) and beta-1,3-glucanase G1 (mol wt 33,500) accumulated during the course of maturation. With a simple, three-step procedure, both chitinases and both beta-1,3-glucanases were purified to homogeneity from the same extract. The two chitinases were endochitinases. They differed in their pH optimum, in specific activity, in the pattern of products formed from [(3)H]chitin, as well as in their relative lysozyme activity. Similarly, the two beta-1,3-glucanases were endoglucanases that showed differences in their pH optimum, specific activity, and pattern of products released from laminarin. 
10589717	19991210	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	A family 26 mannanase produced by Clostridium thermocellum as a component of the cellulosome contains a domain which is conserved in mannanases from anaerobic fungi.	Cellulosomes prepared by the cellulose affinity digestion method from Clostridium thermocellum culture supernatant hydrolysed carob galactomannan during incubation at 60 degrees C and pH 6.5. A recombinant phage expressing mannanase activity was isolated from a library of C. thermocellum genomic DNA constructed in lambdaZAPII. The cloned fragment of DNA containing a putative mannanase gene (manA) was sequenced, revealing an ORF of 1767 nt, encoding a protein (mannanase A; Man26A) of 589 aa with a molecular mass of 66816 Da. The putative catalytic domain (CD) of Man26A, identified by gene sectioning and sequence comparisons, displayed up to 32% identity with other mannanases belonging to family 26. Immediately downstream of the CD and separated from it by a short proline/threonine linker was a duplicated 24-residue dockerin motif, which is conserved in all C. thermocellum cellulosomal enzymes described thus far and mediates their attachment to the cellulosome-integrating protein (CipA). Man26A consisting of the CD alone (Man26A") was hyperexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) and purified. The truncated enzyme hydrolysed soluble and insoluble mannan, displaying a temperature optimum of 65 degrees C and a pH optimum of 6.5, but exhibited no activity against other plant cell wall polysaccharides. Antiserum raised against Man26A" cross-reacted with a polypeptide with a molecular mass of 70000 Da that is part of the C. thermocellum cellulosome. A second variant of Man26A containing the N-terminal segment of 130 residues and the CD (Man26A") bound to ivory-nut mannan and weakly to soluble Carob galactomannan and insoluble cellulose. Man26A" consisting of the CD alone did not bind to these polysaccharides. These results indicate that the N-terminal 130 residues of mature Man26A may constitute a weak mannan-binding domain. Sequence comparisons revealed a lack of identity between this region of Man26A and other polysaccharide-binding domains, but significant identity with a region conserved in the three family 26 mannanases from the anaerobic fungus Piromyces equi. 
22646695	20120601	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	A new stoichiometric miniaturization strategy for screening of industrial microbial strains: application to cellulase hyper-producing Trichoderma reesei strains.	During bioprocess development, secondary screening is a key step at the boundary between laboratory and industrial conditions. To ensure an effective high-throughput screening, miniaturized laboratory conditions must mimic industrial conditions, especially for oxygen transfer, feeding capacity and pH stabilization. A feeding strategy has been applied to develop a simple screening procedure, in which a stoichiometric study is combined with a standard miniaturization procedure. Actually, the knowledge of all nutriments and base or acid requirements leads to a great simplification of pH stabilization issue of miniaturized fed-batch cultures. Applied to cellulase production by Trichoderma reesei, this strategy resulted in a stoichiometric mixed feed of carbon and nitrogen sources. While keeping the pH between shake flask and stirred bioreactor comparable, the developed shake flask protocol reproduced the strain behaviour under stirred bioreactor conditions. Compared to a an already existing miniaturized shake flasks protocol, the cellulase concentration was increased 5-fold, reaching about 10 g L-1. Applied to the secondary screening of several clones, the newly developed protocol succeeded in selecting a clone with a high industrial potential. The understanding of a bioprocess stoichiometry contributed to define a simpler and more effective miniaturization. The suggested strategy can potentially be applied to other fed-batch processes, for the screening of either strain collections or experimental conditions. 
18576076	19970401	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Production of 2,3- butanediol from pretreated corn cob by Klebsiella oxytoca in the presence of fungal cellulase.	A simple and effective method of treatment of lignocellulosic material was used for the preparation of corn cob for the production of 2,3-butanediol by Klebsiella oxytoca ATCC 8724 in a simultaneous saccharification and fermentation process. During the treatment, lignin, and alkaline extractives were solubilized and separated from cellulose and hemicellulose fractions by dilute ammonia (10%) steeping. Hemicellulose was then hydrolyzed by dilute hydrochloric acid (1%, wJv) hydrolysis at 100 degrees C at atmospheric pressure and separated from cellulose fraction. The remaining solid, with 90% of cellulose, was then used as the substrate. A butanediol concentration of 25 g/L and an ethanol concentration of 7 g/L were produced by K. oxytoca from 80 g/L of corn cob cellulose with a cellulase dosage of 8.5 IFPU/g corn cob cellulose after 72 h of SSF. With only dilute acid hydrolysis, a butanediol production rate of 0.21 g/L/h was obtained that is much lower than the case in which corn cob was treated with ammonia steeping prior to acid hydrolysis. The butanediol production rate for the latter was 0.36 g/L/h. 
23091033	20121024	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	Evidence for the role of endosymbionts in regional-scale habitat partitioning by hydrothermal vent symbioses.	Deep-sea hydrothermal vents are populated by dense communities of animals that form symbiotic associations with chemolithoautotrophic bacteria. To date, our understanding of which factors govern the distribution of host/symbiont associations (or holobionts) in nature is limited, although host physiology often is invoked. In general, the role that symbionts play in habitat utilization by vent holobionts has not been thoroughly addressed. Here we present evidence for symbiont-influenced, regional-scale niche partitioning among symbiotic gastropods (genus Alviniconcha) in the Lau Basin. We extensively surveyed Alviniconcha holobionts from four vent fields using quantitative molecular approaches, coupled to characterization of high-temperature and diffuse vent-fluid composition using gastight samplers and in situ electrochemical analyses, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses exposed cryptic host and symbiont diversity, revealing three distinct host types and three different symbiont phylotypes (one ε-proteobacteria and two γ-proteobacteria) that formed specific associations with one another. Strikingly, we observed that holobionts with ε-proteobacterial symbionts were dominant at the northern fields, whereas holobionts with γ-proteobacterial symbionts were dominant in the southern fields. This pattern of distribution corresponds to differences in the vent geochemistry that result from deep subsurface geological and geothermal processes. We posit that the symbionts, likely through differences in chemolithoautotrophic metabolism, influence niche utilization among these holobionts. The data presented here represent evidence linking symbiont type to habitat partitioning among the chemosynthetic symbioses at hydrothermal vents and illustrate the coupling between subsurface geothermal processes and niche availability. 
6421330	19840214	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D003160 D016428 	Purification and characterization of alpha-glucosidases produced by Saccharomyces in response to three distinct maltose genes.	alpha-Glucosidases or maltases (EC 3.2.1.20) were purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from a respective strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae which carries a single MAL gene, either MAL alpha, MAL beta, or MAL gamma, using gluconate-Sepharose affinity chromatography and isoelectrofocusing. Of these maltases, two types of maltase were obtained from the MAL gamma strain, the pI values of which were 5.6 and 5.9. From the MAL alpha and MAL beta strain was obtained only one type of maltase with the pI at 5.6 which was identical to one of the maltases from the MAL gamma strain. These four maltases possessed the same properties, except for pI. They were monomers with molecular weights of between 66 000 and 67 000. With regard to the substrate specificity, they hydrolyzed maltose and sucrose exclusively but not alpha-methylglucoside nor maltooligosaccharide. They did not differ in immunological properties. 
23456715	20130305	J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of Petriella setifera LH and characterization of its crude carboxymethyl cellulase for application in denim biostoning.	The phylogenetic tree of the partial elongation factor-1 alpha gene fits better than the partial 18S rDNA for generic classification. From the results of the molecular tree and analysis of morphological characters, Petriella setifera LH was identified. It can be induced to produce carboxymethyl cellulase (CMCase). The crude CMCase only shows a 44.1-kDa band by activity staining after SDS-PAGE. It is optimally active at 55°C and pH 6.0, and is stable from pH 5.0-8.0 and at 45°C or below. The crude CMCase, which is not affected by Co(2+), is strongly activated in the presence of 10 mM Na(+), K(+), Ca(2+), Mg(2+), EDTA, and Mn(2+). It is strongly inhibited by 10 mM Fe(2+), Pb(2+), Al(3+), Zn(2+), Ag(+), Fe(3+), and Cu(2+). When compared with denim treatment by Novoprime A800 (a commercial neutral cellulase), crude CMCase exhibits a similar fabric weight loss and indigo dye removal. These results indicate that crude CMCase has potential application in denim biostoning. 
10393307	19990707	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction study of the endo-polygalacturonase from Fusarium moniliforme.	Endo-polygalacturonases catalyze the fragmentation and solubilization of the homogalacturonan of the plant cell wall. These enzymes are extracellularly targeted glycoproteins produced by a number of organisms such as fungi, bacteria and plants, and are involved in both pathological and physiological processes. Single crystals of the endo-polygalacturonase from the phytopathogenic fungus Fusarium moniliforme were obtained by the vapour-diffusion method at 294 K. The starting material as well as the crystal consist of three forms with different degrees of glycosylation. The crystals belong to the orthorhombic space group P212121 and diffract to 1.9 A resolution on a synchrotron-radiation source under cryocooling conditions. 
18551552	19830801	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Chemical and gamma-ray-modified bagasse as substrates for bioproduction of cellulases and protein.	Production of enzymes in the cellulolytic complex was determined in culture filtrates of six fungal isolates grown on chemically treated or gamma-irradiated bagasse. The enzymatic activities of the filtrates were determined by measurement of glucose release from cotton, filter paper, carboxymethylcellulose, cellobiose, and cellobiose octaacetate. Cultures grown on base-treated and gamma-irradiated plus acid-treated bagasse provided culture filtrates with the highest enzymatic activities whereas alpha-cellulose, untreated, and acid-treated bagasse were the poorest substrates for enzyme production. Filtrates of Trichoderma reesei QM 9414 yielded the highest cellulolytic activity in all test media. The largest accumulation of fungal-derived, extracellular protein was observed in media containing gamma-irradiated bagasse as the carbon substrate. 
20541110	20100615	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Bioethanol production from ball milled bagasse using an on-site produced fungal enzyme cocktail and xylose-fermenting Pichia stipitis.	Sugarcane bagasse is one of the most promising agricultural by-products for conversion to biofuels. Here, ethanol fermentation from bagasse has been achieved using an integrated process combining mechanical pretreatment by ball milling, with enzymatic hydrolysis and fermentation. Ball milling for 2 h was sufficient for nearly complete cellulose structural transformation to an accessible amorphous form. The pretreated cellulosic residues were hydrolyzed by a crude enzyme preparation from Penicillium chrysogenum BCC4504 containing cellulase activity combined with Aspergillus flavus BCC7179 preparation containing complementary beta-glucosidase activity. Saccharification yields of 84.0% and 70.4% for glucose and xylose, respectively, were obtained after hydrolysis at 45 degrees C, pH 5 for 72 h, which were slightly higher than those obtained with a commercial enzyme mixture containing Acremonium cellulase and Optimash BG. A high conversion yield of undetoxified pretreated bagasse (5%, w/v) hydrolysate to ethanol was attained by separate hydrolysis and fermentation processes using Pichia stipitis BCC15191, at pH 5.5, 30 degrees C for 24 h resulting in an ethanol concentration of 8.4 g/l, corresponding to a conversion yield of 0.29 g ethanol/g available fermentable sugars. Comparable ethanol conversion efficiency was obtained by a simultaneous saccharification and fermentation process which led to production of 8.0 g/l ethanol after 72 h fermentation under the same conditions. This study thus demonstrated the potential use of a simple integrated process with minimal environmental impact with the use of promising alternative on-site enzymes and yeast for the production of ethanol from this potent lignocellulosic biomass. 
6434508	19830801	J._Appl._Biochem.	D016428 	beta-Xylosidase from Aspergillus niger 15: purification and properties.	Homogeneous (as judged by data from gel filtration, ultracentrifugation, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with and without sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and isoelectric focusing) beta-xylosidase showing beta-D-xylosidase, beta-D-glucosidase, beta-D-galactosidase, and alpha-L-arabinosidase activities has been isolated from the hemicellulase preparation of the microscopic fungus Aspergillus niger 15 by ethanol fractionation and chromatography on Sephadex G-50, cellulose DE-52, and Sephadexes SP C-50 and G-200. The specific activity of the enzyme toward p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside (p-NPX) increased 199-fold and was equal to 35.2 units/mg of protein; the activity yield was 43%. The sedimentation coefficient was equal to 10.6 S, and the molecular weight was 253,000 according to the gel filtration data and 122,000 according to the data from SDS electrophoresis. The isoelectric point was at pH 4.9. An amino acid analysis has shown that dicarboxylic and hydrophobic amino acids prevail in the enzyme. beta-Xylosidase had no carbohydrate component, and p-chloromercuribenzoate inhibited its activity. The temperature optimum of beta-xylosidase activity toward p-NPX was at 70 degrees C, and the pH optimum was 3.8-4.0. The enzyme was stable at pH 3 to 8 and did not lose its activity for 1 h at temperatures up to 50 degrees C. D-Xylose was found to be a competitive inhibitor of the beta-D-xylosidase activity of the enzyme with Ki = 2.9 mM. beta-Xylosidase showed transglycosylase activity. 
9466911	19980219	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	High-resolution crystal structures reveal how a cellulose chain is bound in the 50 A long tunnel of cellobiohydrolase I from Trichoderma reesei.	Detailed information has been obtained, by means of protein X-ray crystallography, on how a cellulose chain is bound in the cellulose-binding tunnel of cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI), the major cellulase in the hydrolysis of native, crystalline cellulose by the fungus Trichoderma reesei. Three high-resolution crystal structures of different catalytically deficient mutants of CBHI in complex with cellotetraose, cellopentaose and cellohexaose have been refined at 1.9, 1.7 and 1.9 A resolution, respectively. The observed binding of cellooligomers in the tunnel allowed unambiguous identification of ten well-defined subsites for glucosyl units that span a length of approximately 50 A. All bound oligomers have the same directionality and orientation, and the positions of the glucosyl units in each binding site agree remarkably well between the different complexes. The binding mode observed here corresponds to that expected during productive binding of a cellulose chain. The structures support the hypothesis that hydrolysis by CBHI proceeds from the reducing towards the non-reducing end of a cellulose chain, and they provide a structural explanation for the observed distribution of initial hydrolysis products. 
18443829	20080430	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D016428 D013485 	Enhancing the thermal stability of lipases through mutagenesis and immobilization on zeolites.	The hydrolysis reaction of p-nitrophenyl butyrate catalyzed by lipases was followed with in situ UV/vis diode array spectrophotometry. Five enzymes - Candida antarctica lipase B and Fusarium solani pisi cutinase wild-type and three single-mutation variants - were tested as catalysts in homogeneous conditions and immobilized on zeolite NaY, on a polyacrylate support and as cross-linked aggregates. Using deconvolution techniques and kinetic modeling, the thermal stability of the different biocatalysts was compared in operational conditions and the results were supported by steady-state enzyme fluorescence measurements. We concluded that both the mutagenesis and the immobilization on zeolite NaY had a positive effect on the thermal stability of F. solani pisi cutinase. 
17537615	20070601	Res._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Differential degradation of oak (Quercus petraea) leaf litter by litter-decomposing basidiomycetes.	Due to production of lignocellulose-degrading enzymes, saprotrophic litter-decomposing basidiomycetes can significantly contribute to the turnover of soil organic matter. The production of lignin and polysaccharide-degrading enzymes and changes in the chemical composition of litter was studied with Marasmius quercophilus, Mycena inclinata and Pholiota lenta, three basidiomycete species typical of oak (Quercus petraea) forests. Within 12weeks of incubation, M. inclinata decomposed 33%, M. quercophilus 36% and P. lenta 48% of the substrate dry mass. All fungi produced laccase and Mn-peroxidase and none of them produced lignin peroxidase or Mn-independent peroxidases. M. inclinata and M. quercophilus produced considerable laccase activity, while production by P. lenta was low. M. quercophilus and P. lenta produced most Mn-peroxidase at the beginning of the experiment, while the production by M. inclinata was more stable in time. Endo-1,4-beta-xylanase exhibited the highest activity among endocleaving glycosyl hydrolases while 1,4-beta-glucosidase was the main exocleaving enzyme. All fungi decreased the C:N ratio of the litter from 27 to 13-17 and M. inclinata and M. quercophilus also decreased the lignin content. Analytical pyrolysis of decayed litter showed changes in litter composition similar to those caused by white-rot fungi during wood decay, e.g. a decrease in the syringyl/guaiacyl lignin ratio. These changes were more pronounced in M. inclinata and M. quercophilus. The results indicate that different litter-decomposing fungi can cause substantial litter transformation despite considerable differences in the production of lignocellulose-degrading enzymes. 
106050	19790201	J._Biochem.	D016428 	Studies on cellulases of a phytopathogenic fungus, Pyricularia oryzae Cavara. III. Multiplicity of beta-glucosidase, and purification and properties of a second component.	To determine the relationship between the induction patterns of three components of beta-glucosidase of Pyricularia oryzae and carbon sources in the growth medium, various culture conditions were examined. Avicel, hydroxyethylcellulose and methyl-beta-D-glucoside as the carbon source induced both beta-glucosidase components, GB-1 and GB-2, whereas cellobiose and gentiobiose induced only one component, GB-1. Thus, these two components were induced independently and hence thought to be isozymes. The GB-2 was purified to homogeneity by ion exchange and gel filtration chromatographies from two different cultures on methyl-beta-D-glucoside and Avicel. The specific activity of GB-2 when salicin was used as substrate was approximately 5.9 mg glucose/min/mg protein. GB-2 was found to be an oligomeric glycoprotein, which consisted of two subunits with molecular weight of approximately 120,000, comprising a relatively large number of acidic amino acids and mannose, as is the case with GB-1. These two isozymes were clearly different in thermostability, GB-2 being more thermolabile than GB-1. However, the same carboxyl group (pKa 4.2--4.8) was found to be strongly implicated in the formation and dissociation of the enzyme-substrate complex for both of the enzymes, from the analysis of kinetic parameters as a function of pH. 
10933800	20000810	Biochemistry	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Identification of Asp-130 as the catalytic nucleophile in the main alpha-galactosidase from Phanerochaete chrysosporium, a family 27 glycosyl hydrolase.	Characterization of the complete gene sequence encoding the alpha-galactosidase from Phanerochaete chrysosporium confirms that this enzyme is a member of glycosyl hydrolase family 27 [Henrissat, B., and Bairoch, A. (1996) Biochem. J. 316, 695-696]. This family, together with the family 36 alpha-galactosidases, forms glycosyl hydrolase clan GH-D, a superfamily of alpha-galactosidases, alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidases, and isomaltodextranases which are likely to share a common catalytic mechanism and structural topology. Identification of the active site catalytic nucleophile was achieved by labeling with the mechanism-based inactivator 2',4', 6'-trinitrophenyl 2-deoxy-2,2-difluoro-alpha-D-lyxo-hexopyranoside; this inactivator was synthesized by anomeric deprotection of the known 1,3,4,6-tetra-O-acetyl-2-deoxy-2, 2-difluoro-D-lyxo-hexopyranoside [McCarter, J. D., Adam, M. J., Braun, C., Namchuk, M., Tull, D., and Withers, S. G. (1993) Carbohydr. Res. 249, 77-90], picrylation with picryl fluoride and 2, 6-di-tert-butylpyridine, and O-deacetylation with methanolic HCl. Enzyme inactivation is a result of the formation of a stable 2-deoxy-2,2-difluoro-beta-D-lyxo-hexopyranosyl-enzyme intermediate. Following peptic digestion, comparative liquid chromatographic/mass spectrometric analysis of inactivated and control enzyme samples served to identify the covalently modified peptide. After purification of the labeled peptide, benzylamine was shown to successfully replace the 2-deoxy-2,2-difluoro-D-lyxo-hexopyranosyl peptidyl ester by aminolysis. The labeled amino acid was identified as Asp-130 of the mature protein by further tandem mass spectrometric analysis of the native and derivatized peptides in combination with Edman degradation analysis. Asp-130 is found within the sequence YLKYDNC, which is highly conserved in all known family 27 glycosyl hydrolases. 
22462823	20120403	BMC_Genomics	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Unravelling the molecular basis for light modulated cellulase gene expression - the role of photoreceptors in Neurospora crassa.	Light represents an important environmental cue, which exerts considerable influence on the metabolism of fungi. Studies with the biotechnological fungal workhorse Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina) have revealed an interconnection between transcriptional regulation of cellulolytic enzymes and the light response. Neurospora crassa has been used as a model organism to study light and circadian rhythm biology. We therefore investigated whether light also regulates transcriptional regulation of cellulolytic enzymes in N. crassa. We show that the N. crassa photoreceptor genes wc-1, wc-2 and vvd are involved in regulation of cellulase gene expression, indicating that this phenomenon is conserved among filamentous fungi. The negative effect of VVD on production of cellulolytic enzymes is thereby accomplished by its role in photoadaptation and hence its function in White collar complex (WCC) formation. In contrast, the induction of vvd expression by the WCC does not seem to be crucial in this process. Additionally, we found that WC-1 and WC-2 not only act as a complex, but also have individual functions upon growth on cellulose. Genome wide transcriptome analysis of photoreceptor mutants and evaluation of results by analysis of mutant strains identified several candidate genes likely to play a role in light modulated cellulase gene expression. Genes with functions in amino acid metabolism, glycogen metabolism, energy supply and protein folding are enriched among genes with decreased expression levels in the wc-1 and wc-2 mutants. The ability to properly respond to amino acid starvation, i. e. up-regulation of the cross pathway control protein cpc-1, was found to be beneficial for cellulase gene expression. Our results further suggest a contribution of oxidative depolymerization of cellulose to plant cell wall degradation in N. crassa. 
22878189	20120811	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Contribution ratios of amyA, amyB, amyC genes to high-level α-amylase expression in Aspergillus oryzae.	Aspergillus oryzae strains express α-amylases abundantly, and the genome reference strain RIB40 has three α-amylase genes (amyA, amyB, and amyC). However, there is no information on the contribution ratios of individual α-amylase genes to total expression. In this study, we generated single, double, and triple disruptants of α-amylase genes by employing a strain (ΔligD) with high gene-targeting efficiency and pyrG marker recycling in A. oryzae. All the disruptants showed reduced activities of α-amylases, and the triple disruptant completely lost activity. Comparative analyses of the activities and mRNA amounts of the α-amylases suggest that the contribution of amyA to the α-amylase expression is smaller than those of amyB and amyC. The present study suggests that the ability to express a large amount of α-amylases in A. oryzae is attributed to gene duplication of genes such as amyB and amyC. 
22731517	20120627	J._Biomol._Struct._Dyn.	D016428 D013486 	A rigid network of long-range contacts increases thermostability in a mutant endoglucanase.	Thermodynamic stability of a protein at elevated temperatures is a key factor for thermostable enzymes to catalyze their specific reactions. Yet our understanding of biological determinants of thermostability is far from complete. Many different atomistic factors have been suggested as possible means for such proteins to preserve their activity at high temperatures. Among these factors are specific local interatomic interactions or enrichment of specific amino acid types. The case of glycosyl hydrolase family endoglucanase of Trichoderma reesei defies current hypotheses for thermostability because a single mutation far from the active site (A35 V) converts this mesostable protein into a thermostable protein without significant change in the protein structure. This substantial change in enzymatic activity cannot be explained on the basis of local intramolecular interactions alone. Here we present a more global view of the induced thermostability and show that the A35 V mutation affects the underlying structural rigidity of the whole protein via a number of long-range, non-local interactions. Our analysis of this structure reveals a precisely tuned, rigid network of atomic interactions. This cooperative, allosteric effect promotes the transformation of this mesostable protein into a thermostable one. 
11955286	20020417	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	Interactions defining the specificity between fungal xylanases and the xylanase-inhibiting protein XIP-I from wheat.	We previously reported on the xylanase-inhibiting protein I (XIP-I) from wheat [McLauchlan, Garcia-Conesa, Williamson, Roza, Ravestein and Maat (1999), Biochem. J. 338, 441-446]. In the present study, we show that XIP-I inhibits family-10 and -11 fungal xylanases. The K(i) values for fungal xylanases ranged from 3.4 to 610 nM, but bacterial family-10 and -11 xylanases were not inhibited. Unlike many glycosidase inhibitors, XIP-I was not a slow-binding inhibitor of the Aspergillus niger xylanase. Isothermal titration calorimetry of the XIP-I-A. niger xylanase complex showed the formation of a stoichiometric (1:1) complex with a heat capacity change of -1.38 kJ x mol(-1) x K(-1), leading to a predicted buried surface area of approx. 2200+/-500 A(2) at the complex interface. For this complex with A. niger xylanase (K(i)=320 nM at pH 5.5), titration curves indicated that an observable interaction occurred at pH 4-7, and this was consistent with the pH profile of inhibition of activity. In contrast, the stronger complex between A. nidulans xylanase and XIP-I (K(i)=9 nM) led to an observable interaction across the entire pH range tested (3-9). Using surface plasmon resonance, we show that the differences in the binding affinity of XIP-I for A. niger and A. nidulans xylanase are due to a 200-fold lower dissociation rate k(off) for the latter, with only a small difference in association rate k(on). 
17646355	20070725	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D052061 D013486 	Modulation of the pulmonary type 2 T-cell response to Cryptococcus neoformans by intratracheal delivery of a tumor necrosis factor alpha-expressing adenoviral vector.	C57BL/6 mice develop an allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis following intratracheal inoculation of Cryptococcus neoformans 24067. We determined that only low levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) are produced in the lungs following infection. Thus, the objective of the present studies was to determine whether treatment with a TNF-alpha-expressing adenoviral vector (adenoviral vector with the murine TNF-alpha transgene under the control of the human cytomegalovirus promoter [AdTNFalpha]) could switch the type 2 (T2) T-cell response/T1 T-cell response balance toward the T1 T-cell response. AdTNFalpha induced an increase in TNF-alpha expression at days 3 and 7. At days 7 to 14, the number of cryptococcal lung CFU continued to increase in both untreated and control adenoviral vector (empty adenovirus type 5 backbone)-treated mice, but the number was ultimately 100-fold lower following AdTNFalpha treatment. AdTNFalpha markedly increased neutrophil and macrophage numbers, and pulmonary eosinophilia did not develop. CXCL1, CXCL2, and gamma interferon were also up-regulated, while eotaxin, interleukin-4 (IL-4), and IL-5 were down-regulated. AdTNFalpha treatment also increased the number of CD80(+) and CD40(+) cells and decreased the number of CD86(+) cells (CD11b(+) and CD11c(+)) in the lungs. Major histocompatibility complex class II levels on CD11b(+) cells were increased. Whole-lung expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase was increased, while YM2 expression and acidic mammalian chitinase expression were decreased. None of these effects were observed with the control (empty) adenoviral vector. Overall, these results support the hypothesis that early TNF-alpha expression promotes a shift in T-cell and macrophage polarization from T2/alternatively activated macrophages toward T1/classically activated macrophages, resulting in control of the fungal infection and prevention of the allergic response. 
9449768	19980205	Carbohydr._Res.	D003160 D016428 	Enzymatic synthesis of the glycosides of calystegines B1 and B2 and their glycosidase inhibitory activities.	Several glycosides of calystegines B1 and B2 were synthesized by use of rice alpha-glucosidase and the whole cells of Rhodotorula lactosa, and their glycosidase inhibitory activities were investigated. Incubation of mixture of calystegine B1 and maltose with rice alpha-glucosidase gave 3-O-alpha-D-glucopyranosylcalystegine B1 (2, 11.3%). An enzymatic beta-transglucosylation reaction of calystegines B1 or B2 with cellobiose using the whole cells of R. lactosa gave 3-O-beta-D-glucopyranosylcalystegine B1 (1) (0.9%) or 4-O-beta-D-glucopyranosylcalystegine B2 (3, 11.2%), respectively, while similar beta-transgalactosylation of calystegine B2 from lactose gave 4-O-beta-D-galactopyranosylcalystegine B2 (4, 10.1%). The glycosylation of calystegines B1 and B2 markedly decreased or abolished their inhibition against beta-glucosidase, alpha- or beta-galactosidase. Compound 4 however retained more or less the potency of calystegine B2 against trehalase. Interestingly, compound 1 was a noncompetitive inhibitor of rice alpha-glucosidase, with a Ki value of 0.9 +/- 0.1 microM. 
24120452	20131015	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Strain-specific variation in a soilborne phytopathogenic fungus for the expression of genes involved in pH signal transduction pathway, pathogenesis and saprophytic survival in response to environmental pH changes.	The soilborne fungus Gaeumannomyces graminis var. tritici (Ggt) causes take-all, a wheat root disease. In an original strain-specific way, a previous study indicates that inside the Ggt species, some strains grow preferentially at acidic pH and other strains at neutral/alkaline pH. The most important mechanism for a fungal response to the environmental pH is the Pal pathway which integrates the products of the six pal genes and the transcription factor PacC. To evaluate whether the Ggt strain-specific growth in function of the ambient pH is mediated via the Pal pathway, a transcriptional study of the genes encoding this pathway was carried out. This study provided the first evidence that the pH signalling pathway similar to those described in other fungi operated in Ggt. The pacC gene was induced at neutral pH whatever the strain. In an original way, the expression of Ggt genes coding for the different Pal proteins depended on the strain and on the ambient pH. In the strain growing better at acidic pH, few pal genes were pH-regulated, and some were overexpressed at neutral pH when regulated. In the strain growing better at neutral pH, underexpression of most of the pal genes at neutral pH occurred. The strains displayed higher gene expression in the ambient pH that unfavoured their growth as if it was a compensation system. All pH taken together, a globally weaker Pal transcript level occurred in the strains that were less sensitive to acidic pH, and on the contrary, the strain growing better on neutral pH showed higher Pal mRNA levels. The expression of genes involved in pathogenesis and saprophytic growth was also regulated by the ambient pH and the strain: each gene displayed a specific pH-regulation that was similar between strains. But all pH taken together, the global transcript levels of four out of six genes were higher in the strain growing better on neutral pH. Altogether, for the first time, the results show that inside a species, conditions affecting environmental pH modulate the expression of genes in an original strain-specific way.  
2126511	19901001	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of an extracellular beta-xylosidase from the rumen anaerobic fungus Neocallimastix frontalis.	The purification of beta-xylosidase (beta-D-xyloside xylohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.37) from Neocallimastix frontalis was performed by ammonium sulphate precipitation, ion exchange chromatography, gel filtration and preparative isoelectric focusing. The enzyme had a molecular mass of 180,000 Da, an isoelectric point at pH 4.35 and catalysed the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside optimally at pH 6.5 and 35 degrees C with a Km of 0.33 mg ml-1. The enzymatic activity was strongly increased by the presence of Ca2+, Mn2+, Zn2+, Co2+ or Mg2+ and completely inhibited by Hg2+ and p-chloromercuribenzoate. The purified protein also had a low level of xylanase activity. 
12812063	20030619	Yi_Chuan_Xue_Bao	D016428 D013485 	[Cloning and sequencing of chitinase gene from Bacillus thuringiensis subsp israelensis].	Chitin, a linear homopolymer of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, is a common constituent of fungal cell walls, exoskeletons of insects, and shells of invertebrates. Thus, chitinase, a chitin hydrolytic enzyme, has become of interest for potential use as biopesticides for controlling insect pests. Using a pair of specific primers, chitinase gene (ichi) was amplified by touchdown PCR from Bacillus thuringiensis subsp israelensis chromosomal DNA, and then subcloned into pGEM-T easy vector. ichi sequence (GenBank Accession Number: AF526379) with a length of 2570 bp included an open reading frame (ORF) of 2067 bp, which contained 688 amino acids with Mr = 75.79 kDa and pI = 5.90. The amino acid sequence of ichi gene shows 97.24%, 97.18%, 97.63% and 63.07% identity to that of Bacillus cereus strain 28-9 chitinase CW, Bacillus cereus CH chitinase B, Bt subsp Mexican chitinase, and Bt subsp pakistani chitinase A71, respectively. It was demonstrated that Ichi contains a signal peptide (46 amino acid residues) and three functional domains: an N-terminal catalytic domain (105 amino acid residues), a fibronectin type III like domain (74 amino acid residues), and a C-terminal chitin-binding domain (40 amino acid residues). 
23733951	20130605	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Structural characterization of a unique marine animal family 7 cellobiohydrolase suggests a mechanism of cellulase salt tolerance.	Nature uses a diversity of glycoside hydrolase (GH) enzymes to convert polysaccharides to sugars. As lignocellulosic biomass deconstruction for biofuel production remains costly, natural GH diversity offers a starting point for developing industrial enzymes, and fungal GH family 7 (GH7) cellobiohydrolases, in particular, provide significant hydrolytic potential in industrial mixtures. Recently, GH7 enzymes have been found in other kingdoms of life besides fungi, including in animals and protists. Here, we describe the in vivo spatial expression distribution, properties, and structure of a unique endogenous GH7 cellulase from an animal, the marine wood borer Limnoria quadripunctata (LqCel7B). RT-quantitative PCR and Western blot studies show that LqCel7B is expressed in the hepatopancreas and secreted into the gut for wood degradation. We produced recombinant LqCel7B, with which we demonstrate that LqCel7B is a cellobiohydrolase and obtained four high-resolution crystal structures. Based on a crystallographic and computational comparison of LqCel7B to the well-characterized Hypocrea jecorina GH7 cellobiohydrolase, LqCel7B exhibits an extended substrate-binding motif at the tunnel entrance, which may aid in substrate acquisition and processivity. Interestingly, LqCel7B exhibits striking surface charges relative to fungal GH7 enzymes, which likely results from evolution in marine environments. We demonstrate that LqCel7B stability and activity remain unchanged, or increase at high salt concentration, and that the L. quadripunctata GH mixture generally contains cellulolytic enzymes with highly acidic surface charge compared with enzymes derived from terrestrial microbes. Overall, this study suggests that marine cellulases offer significant potential for utilization in high-solids industrial biomass conversion processes. 
10671457	20000215	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013486 	Feruloyl esterase activity of the Clostridium thermocellum cellulosome can be attributed to previously unknown domains of XynY and XynZ.	The cellulosome of Clostridium thermocellum is a multiprotein complex with endo- and exocellulase, xylanase, beta-glucanase, and acetyl xylan esterase activities. XynY and XynZ, components of the cellulosome, are composed of several domains including xylanase domains and domains of unknown function (UDs). Database searches revealed that the C- and N-terminal UDs of XynY and XynZ, respectively, have sequence homology with the sequence of a feruloyl esterase of strain PC-2 of the anaerobic fungus Orpinomyces. Purified cellulosomes from C. thermocellum were found to hydrolyze FAXX (O-(5-O-[(E)-feruloyl]-alpha-L-arabinofuranosyl)-(1-->3)-O-beta-D- xyl opyranosyl-(1-->4)-D-xylopyranose) and FAX(3) (5-O-[(E)-feruloyl]-[O-beta-D-xylopyranosyl-(1-->2)]-O-alpha-L- arabinofuranosyl-[1-->3])-O-beta-D-xylopyranosyl-(1-->4)-D-xylopyranose) , yielding ferulic acid as a product, indicating that they have feruloyl esterase activity. Nucleotide sequences corresponding to the UDs of XynY and XynZ were cloned into Escherichia coli, and the expressed proteins hydrolyzed FAXX and FAX(3). The recombinant feruloyl esterase domain of XynZ alone (FAE(XynZ)) and with the adjacent cellulose binding domain (FAE-CBD(XynZ)) were characterized. FAE-CBD(XynZ) had a molecular mass of 45 kDa that corresponded to the expected product of the 1,203-bp gene. K(m) and V(max) values for FAX(3) were 5 mM and 12.5 U/mg, respectively, at pH 6.0 and 60 degrees C. PAX(3), a substrate similar to FAX(3) but with a p-coumaroyl group instead of a feruloyl moiety was hydrolyzed at a rate 10 times slower. The recombinant enzyme was active between pH 3 to 10 with an optimum between pH 4 to 7 and at temperatures up to 70 degrees C. Treatment of Coastal Bermuda grass with the enzyme released mainly ferulic acid and a lower amount of p-coumaric acid. FAE(XynZ) had similar properties. Removal of the 40 C-terminal amino acids, residues 247 to 286, of FAE(XynZ) resulted in protein without activity. Feruloyl esterases are believed to aid in a release of lignin from hemicellulose and may be involved in lignin solubilization. The presence of feruloyl esterase in the C. thermocellum cellulosome together with its other hydrolytic activities demonstrates a powerful enzymatic potential of this organelle in plant cell wall decomposition. 
8766668	19960501	Nahrung	D016428 	Effect of some fungicides on extracellular enzymes of Sclerotium rolfsii sacc.	The effect of four fungicides on rot of cocoyam tubers, vegetative growth and extracelluar enzymes of the pathogen was investigated. At 200 ppm concentration, rot was completely prevented by Dithane M45. Benomyl and Iprodione in tubers of Xanthosoma sagittifolium. There was better protection by the fungicides for Cocoyam tubers treated with fungicides before spraying with hyphal suspension than those sprayed first with hyphal suspension of Sclerotium rolfsii sacc. At 600 ppm, Benomyl and Iprodione appreciably inhibited mycelial growth of the pathogen by 100% and 80.2% respectively. Both in vitro polygalacturonase and Cx-cellulase of the pathogen were inhibited by the Iprodione and Benomyl unlike Dithane M45 and Cupravit. 
1657419	19910901	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Polymeric genes MEL8, MEL9 and MEL10--new members of alpha-galactosidase gene family in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We used a combination of genetic hybridization analysis and electrokaryotyping with radioactively labelled MEL1 gene probe hybridization to isolate and identify seven polymeric genes for the fermentation of melibiose in strain CBS 5378 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (syn. norbensis). Four of the MEL genes, i.e. MEL3, MEL4, MEL6 and MEL7, were allelic to those found in S. cerevisiae strain CBS 4411 (syn. S. oleaginosus) whereas three genes, i.e. MEL8, MEL9 and MEL10 occupied new loci. Electrokaryotyping showed that all seven MEL genes in CBS 5378 were located on different chromosomes. The new MEL8, MEL9 and MEL10 genes were found on chromosomes XV, X/XIV and XII, respectively. 
16183160	20050927	J._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 	Synthesis and characterization of a new cutinase substrate, 4-nitrophenyl (16-methyl sulfone ester) hexadecanoate.	Phytopathogenic fungi penetrate plants by breaking down the cuticular barrier with cutinase. Cutinases are extracellular hydrolytic enzymes that degrade cutin, a polyester composed of hydroxy and epoxy fatty acids. Until now, cutinase has been recognized by its ability to release labeled cutin monomers or by a non-specific esterase assay based on the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl esters of short fatty acids. In this work, an insoluble p-nitrophenyl derivative was synthesized and purified, and its structure was determined to be 4-nitrophenyl (16-methyl sulfone ester) hexadecanoate (pNMSEH) by nuclear magnetic resonance (H+ NMR) analysis. pNMSEH was tested as a new cutinase substrate with Pseudomonas mandocino cutinase and porcine liver esterase. While a linear release over time of p-nitrophenol (pNP) was recorded in the presence of cutinase, no response was obtained with the esterase. The calculated kinetic parameters of pNMSEH hydrolysis by cutinase revealed a high specificity (Km=1.8mM), albeit a low catalytic rate (Vmax=10.5 micromol min(-l)l(-1)). This new synthetic substrate may be helpful for detecting and assaying cutinase activity in mixed solutions, such as crude fungal extracellular extracts. 
1905781	19910611	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Relative contributions of MCM1 and STE12 to transcriptional activation of a- and alpha-specific genes from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We have examined the relative contributions of MCM1 and STE12 to the transcription of the a-specific STE2 gene by using a 367 bp fragment from the STE2 5'-noncoding region to drive expression of a reporter lacZ gene. Mutation of the MCM1 binding site destroyed MCM1.alpha 2-mediated repression in alpha cells and dramatically reduced expression in a cells. The residual expression was highly stimulated by exposure of cells to pheromone. Likewise, the loss of STE12 function reduced lacZ expression driven by the wild-type STE2 fragment. In the absence of both MCM1 and STE12 functions, no residual expression was observed. Thus, the STE2 fragment appears to contain two distinct upstream activation sequences (UASs), one that is responsible for the majority of expression in cells not stimulated by pheromone, and one that is responsible for increased expression upon pheromone stimulation. In further support of this idea, a chemically synthesized version of the STE2 MCM1 binding site had UAS activity, but the activity was neither stimulated by pheromone nor reduced in ste12 mutants. Although transcription of alpha-specific genes also requires both MCM1 and STE12, these genes differ from a-specific genes in that they have a single, MCM1-dependent UAS system. The activity of the minimal 26 bp UAS from the alpha-specific STE3 gene was both stimulated by pheromone and reduced in ste12 mutants. These data suggest that at alpha-specific genes STE12 and MCM1 exert their effects through a single UAS. 
22578542	20120515	Structure	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Structural basis for substrate targeting and catalysis by fungal polysaccharide monooxygenases.	The use of cellulases remains a major cost in the production of renewable fuels and chemicals from lignocellulosic biomass. Fungi secrete copper-dependent polysaccharide monooxygenases (PMOs) that oxidatively cleave crystalline cellulose and improve the effectiveness of cellulases. However, the means by which PMOs recognize and cleave their substrates in the plant cell wall remain unclear. Here, we present structures of Neurospora crassa PMO-2 and PMO-3 at 1.10 and 1.37 Å resolution, respectively. In the structures, dioxygen species are found in the active sites, consistent with the proposed cleavage mechanism. Structural and sequence comparisons between PMOs also reveal that the enzyme substrate-binding surfaces contain highly varied aromatic amino acid and glycosylation positions. The structures reported here provide evidence for a wide range of PMO substrate recognition patterns in the plant cell wall, including binding modes that traverse multiple glucan chains. 
17974237	20071103	Ying_Yong_Sheng_Tai_Xue_Bao	D016428 D013485 	[Characterization of soil biological properties on degraded alpine grasslands].	The study of degraded alpine grasslands in northern Tibet showed that compared with normal alpine grassland, slightly degraded alpine grassland had higher amounts of soil bacteria, fungi and actinomyces, higher activities of cellulase, urease and alkali phosphatase, and higher contents of microbial biomass C and N and organic matter in its 2-10 cm soil layer, while these parameters were much lower on moderately or severely degraded alpine grassland. There was a positive correlation between soil microbial biomass C/N (B(C)/B(N)) and soil total C/N (T(C)/T(N)), with coefficient value (r) being 0.9088 (P < or = 0.01, n = 4). The ratios of soil B(C)/T(C) and B(N)/T(N) had an increasing trend on slightly and moderately degraded grasslands, but decreased obviously on severely degraded alpine grassland. Soil microbial biomass had a significant positive correlation with soil enzyme activity, and these two parameters were both positively correlated with the amounts of soil bacteria and fungi, but negatively correlated with that of soil actinomyces. In 2-10 cm soil layer, microbial biomass and enzyme activities were significantly positively correlated with organic matter content, and the ratios of humus C/organic C and humic acid C/humus C in 2-10 cm and 11-20 cm soil layers increased significantly with increasing degradation of grassland. 
12553933	20030130	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Histone deacetylase Hda1 acts as repressor of the Ustilago maydis biotrophic marker gene mig1.	The Ustilago maydis mig1 gene is extensively up-regulated during growth within its host plant. A genetic approach was set up to identify mutants expressing mig1 during axenic growth. Five independent mutants were identified that not only displayed increased transcript levels of mig1 but also of egl1, an endoglucanase expressed in dikaryotic filaments. egl1 has recently been shown to be repressed by Hda1, a putative histone deacetylase [Reichmann et al., submitted]. The identified UV mutants shared other phenotypes with hda1 deletion mutants like enhanced pigmentation and the inability to produce teliospores in maize tumours. Complementation and sequence analysis demonstrated that all five UV mutants contained point mutations in the hda1 gene. Despite a common repression mechanism, expression levels of mig1 and egl1 were significantly different during axenic and biotrophic growth, providing evidence for additional regulatory inputs from the respective growth stage. Furthermore, while egl1 is subject to repression by the U. maydis regulator Rum1, this was not the case for mig1. U. maydis strains deleted in either hda1 or rum1 were not affected in mig1 expression in the tumour stage. Transcript levels conferred by mig1 promoters deleted in negatively cis-acting sequences exceeded those in hda1 mutants, suggesting additional negative factors governing mig1 expression. 
8039053	19940401	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of condensed tannins from birdsfoot trefoil on endoglucanase activity and the digestion of cellulose filter paper by ruminal fungi.	The ruminal fungi Neocallimastix frontalis RE1, Neocallimastix patriciarum 27, Piromyces communis 22, and Orpinomyces joyonii 19-2 were examined for their ability to digest filter paper in the presence of condensed tannins from birdsfoot trefoil (Lotus corniculatus L.). For all four fungi, inhibition of endoglucanases was evident at 100 micrograms condensed tannins.mL-1 with nearly complete inhibition at 300 micrograms condensed tannins.mL-1. At 100 and 200 micrograms condensed tannins.mL-1, the endoglucanase activity of N. frontalis RE1 was greater (P < 0.01) than that of the other three fungal species. Exposure to 100 micrograms condensed tannins.mL-1 did not affect the ability of N. frontalis RE1 or N. patriciarum 27 to digest filter paper, and although digestion was reduced, N. frontalis RE1 and P. communis 22 solubilized more than 20% of the filter paper at 500 micrograms condensed tannins.mL-1. In contrast, O. joyonii 19-2 was virtually unable to digest filter paper at 300 micrograms condensed tannins.L-1. Mycelia of fungi grown with condensed tannins were covered by filamentous material, which may have arisen from the formation of condensed tannin-protein complexes. Less than 86% of the condensed tannins (as measured by the H2SO4 method) were recovered after 120 h of incubation with N. frontalis RE1, P. communis 22, and N. patriciarum 27. The need for detailed studies to examine the ability of ruminal fungi to metabolize condensed tannins is evident. 
23293822	20130109	Mikrobiol._Z.	D004740 D016428 	[Purification and physico-chemical properties of Cryptococcus albidus 1001 alpha-L-rhamnosidase].	A scheme of isolation and purification of the enzyme with alpha-L-rhamnosidase activity from culture liquid Cryptococcus albidus 1001 has been developed. It included fractionation by ammonium sulfate and chromatography on TSK-gels Toyopearl HW-60, Fractogel TSK DEAE-650-s and Sepharose 6B. The enzyme was purified 42 times with the yield of 0.7 %. The enzyme preparation did not contain any glycosidase (except of beta-D-glucosidase) and proteolytic activity. Molecular mass of the alpha-L-rhamnosidase preparation by the data of Sepharose 6B gel-filtration was 50 kDa. The enzyme preparation was stable during 48 hours at 20 degrees C, its pH and thermal optimum were 4.0-5.0 and 60 degrees C, correspondingly. 
8804409	19960827	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 	PWP2, a member of the WD-repeat family of proteins, is an essential Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene involved in cell separation.	WD-repeat proteins contain four to eight copies of a conserved motif that usually ends with a tryptophan-aspartate (WD) dipeptide. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae PWP2 gene, identified by sequencing of chromosome III, is predicted to contain eight so-called WD-repeats, flanked by nonhomologous extensions. This gene is expressed as a 3.2-kb mRNA in all cell types and encodes a protein of 104 kDa. The PWP2 gene is essential for growth because spores carrying the pwp2 delta 1::HIS3 disruption germinate before arresting growth with one or two large buds. The growth defect of pwp2 delta 1::HIS3 cells was rescued by expression of PWP2 or epitope-tagged HA-PWP2 using the galactose-inducible GALI promoter. In the absence of galactose, depletion of Pwp2p resulted in multibudded cells with defects in bud site selection, cytokinesis, and hydrolysis of the septal junction between mother and daughter cells. In cell fractionation studies, HA-Pwp2p was localized in the particulate component of cell lysates, from which it would be solubulized by high salt and alkaline buffer but not by nonionic detergents or urea. Indirect immunofluorescence microscopy indicated that HA-Pwp2p was clustered at multiple points in the cytoplasm. These results suggest that Pwp2p exists in a proteinaceous complex, possibly associated with the cytoskeleton, where it functions in control of cell growth and separation. 
21051539	20101106	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Processivity of cellobiohydrolases is limited by the substrate.	Processive cellobiohydrolases (CBHs) are the key components of fungal cellulase systems. Despite the wealth of structural data confirming the processive mode of action, little quantitative information on the processivity of CBHs is available. Here, we developed a method for measuring cellulase processivity. Sensitive fluorescence detection of enzyme-generated insoluble reducing groups on cellulose after labeling with diaminopyridine enabled quantification of the number of reducing-end exo-mode and endo-mode initiations. Both CBHs TrCel7A from Trichoderma reesei and PcCel7D from Phanerochaete chrysosporium employed reducing-end exo- and endo-mode initiation in parallel. Processivity values measured for TrCel7A and PcCel7D on cellulose hydrolysis were more than an order of magnitude lower than the values of intrinsic processivity that were found from the ratio of catalytic constant (k(cat)) and dissociation rate constant (k(off)). We propose that the length of the obstacle-free path available for a processive run on cellulose chain limits the processivity of CBHs on cellulose. TrCel7A and PcCel7D differed in their k(off) values, whereas the k(cat) values were similar. Furthermore, the k(off) values for endoglucanases (EGs) were much higher than the k(off) values for CBHs, whereas the k(cat) values for EGs and CBHs were within the same order of magnitude. These results suggest that the value of k(off) may be the primary target for the selection of cellulases. 
24022493	20130912	J._Mol._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of hesperetin using a covalently multipoint immobilized diglycosidase from Acremonium sp. DSM24697.	The diglycosidase α-rhamnosyl-β-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.168) from the fungus Acremonium sp. DSM24697 was immobilized on several agarose-based supports. Covalent multipoint immobilization onto glyoxyl-activated agarose was selected as the more stable preparation at high concentration of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and high temperature. The optimal conditions for the immobilization process involved an incubation of the enzyme with agarose beads containing 220 μmol of glyoxyl groups per gram at pH 10 and 25°C for 24 h. The hydrolysis of hesperidin carried out in 10% v/v DMSO at 60°C for 2 h reached 64.6% substrate conversion and a specific productivity of 2.40 mmol h(-1) g(-1). Under these conditions, the process was performed reutilizing the catalyst for up to 18 cycles, maintaining >80% of the initial activity and a constant productivity 2.96 ± 0.42 µmol(-1) h(-1) g(-1). To the best of our knowledge, such productivity is the highest achieved for hesperetin production through an enzymatic approach. 
9167273	19970301	Z._Naturforsch.,_C,_J._Biosci.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Characterization and cloning of cutinase from Ascochyta rabiei.	Ascochyta rabiei, the causal agent of Ascochyta blight on chickpea plants, secretes a cutinase in the culture filtrate when it is induced by cutin or hydroxylated fatty acids. This cutinase is the main esterase in the culture fluids. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity by three successive chromatographic steps. It showed an apparent molecular weight of 22 kD in SDS-PAGE and cleaved ester bonds of 3H-labelled cutin or p-nitrophenylbutyrate with maximal activities around pH 8. As a serine esterase, cutinase is strongly inhibited by organophosphorous compounds and the most effective inhibitor 2,3,5-trichloropyridine-6-(O-methyl-O-n-butyl)-phosphateester++ + (MAT 9564) shows a Ki value of 0.8 nM. The cutinase gene was cloned from a genomic cosmid library by screening with two oligonucleotides directed against cutinase consensus peptides. The gene was subcloned to a 1.7 Kb SaII/HindIII-insert and sequenced. The cutinase gene codes for a 223 amino acid protein with strong homology to other fungal cutinase sequences. The purified cutinase is encoded by a single copy gene. 
10591634	19991211	J._Cell._Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Skh1, the MEK component of the mkh1 signaling pathway in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	We previously reported the identification of Mkh1, a MEK kinase in Schizosaccharomyces pombe that is required for cell wall integrity, and we presented genetic evidence that Pmk1/Spm1, a MAP kinase, functions downstream from Mkh1 in the same pathway. Here, we report the identification of Skh1, a MEK (MAP kinase kinase) in S. pombe. The sequence of Skh1 is nearly identical to that of the recently reported Pek1 sequence. We present biochemical and genetic evidence that Skh1 is the MEK component of the Mkh1-Spm1 MAP kinase cascade. Our yeast two-hybrid results indicate that Mkh1, Skh1, and Spm1 physically interact to form a ternary complex. Deletion of mkh1, skh1 or spm1 results in identical phenotypes, including sensitivity to (beta)-glucanase treatment, growth inhibition on media containing KCl, and filamentous growth on medium containing caffeine. Double mutant strains exhibit phenotypes that are identical to the single mutant strains. Furthermore, expression of an activated HA-Skh1(DD )protein suppressed these defects in mkh1(delta) cells, and overexpression of Spm1 suppressed these defects in skh1(delta) cells. We also show that HA-Spm1 is hyper-phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in cells co-expressing the activated HA-Skh1(DD) protein. Furthermore, we found the phosphorylated/activated form of GFP-HA-Spm1 at detectable levels in wild-type cells, but not at appreciable levels in mkh1(delta) or skh1(delta) cells expressing this fusion protein. Together, our results indicate that Mkh1, Skh1 and Spm1 constitute a MAPK cascade in fission yeast. 
11032417	20001014	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Differential induction of sesquiterpene metabolism in tobacco cell suspension cultures by methyl jasmonate and fungal elicitor.	Jasmonates are well documented for their ability to modulate the expression of plant genes and to influence specific aspects of disease/pest resistance traits. We and others have been studying the synthesis of sesquiterpene phytoalexins in elicitor/pathogen-challenged plants and have sought to determine if methyl jasmonate (MeJA) could substitute for fungal elicitors in the induction of capsidiol accumulation by tobacco cell cultures. The current results demonstrate that MeJA does in fact induce phytoalexin accumulation, but with a much more delayed induction time course than elicitor. While elicitor treatment induced strong but transient changes in key enzymes of sesquiterpene biosynthesis, sesquiterpene cyclase, and aristolochene/deoxy-capsidiol hydroxylase, MeJA did not. Instead, MeJA caused a protracted induction of cyclase activity and only a low level of hydroxylase activity. MeJA induced the expression of at least two sesquiterpene cyclase genes, including one that had not been observed previously in elicitor-induced mRNA populations. Only a small portion of the total sesquiterpene cyclase mRNA induced by MeJA was associated with polysomal RNA, suggesting that the MeJA treatment imposed both transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation in tobacco cells. These results are not consistent with MeJA playing a role in orchestrating defense responses in elicitor-treated tobacco cells, but do provide evidence that MeJA induces a subset of genes coding for the biosynthesis of sesquiterpene phytoalexins. 
22500898	20120417	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D023362 D016428 D013486 	Promoting pellet growth of Trichoderma reesei Rut C30 by surfactants for easy separation and enhanced cellulase production.	It is desirable to modify the normally filamentous Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 to a pellet form, for easy biomass separation from the fermentation medium containing soluble products (e.g., cellulase). It was found in this study that this morphological modification could be successfully achieved by addition of the biosurfactant rhamnolipid (at ≥ 0.3g/L) and the synthetic Triton X-100 (at ≥ 0.1g/L) to the fermentation broth before the cells started to grow actively. Thirteen other surfactants tested were not as effective. Furthermore, the added rhamnolipid and Triton X-100 increased the maximum cellulase activity (Filter Paper Units) produced in the fungal fermentation; the increase was 68 ± 7.8% for rhamnolipid and 73 ± 12% for Triton X-100. At the concentrations required for pellet formation, rhamnolipid had negative effect on the cell growth: with increasing rhamnolipid concentrations, the growth rate decreased and the lag-phase duration increased linearly. Triton X-100 caused no significant differences in growth rate or lag phase. 
17221225	20070116	Plant_Cell_Rep.	D016428 D013485 	Pyramiding transgenic resistance in elite indica rice cultivars against the sheath blight and bacterial blight.	Elite indica rice cultivars were cotransformed with genes expressing a rice chitinase (chi11) and a thaumatin-like protein (tlp) conferring resistance to fungal pathogens and a serine-threonine kinase (Xa21) conferring bacterial blight resistance, through particle bombardment, with a view to pyramiding sheath blight and bacterial blight resistance. Molecular analyses of putative transgenic lines by polymerase chain reaction, Southern Blot hybridization, and Western Blotting revealed stable integration and expression of the transgenes in a few independent transgenic lines. Progeny analyses showed the stable inheritance of transgenes to their progeny. Coexpression of chitinase and thaumatin-like protein in the progenies of a transgenic Pusa Basmati1 line revealed an enhanced resistance to the sheath blight pathogen, Rhizoctonia solani, as compared to that in the lines expressing the individual genes. A transgenic Pusa Basmati1 line pyramided with chi11, tlp, and Xa21 showed an enhanced resistance to both sheath blight and bacterial blight. 
23315264	20130115	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Random UV mutagenesis approach for enhanced biodegradation of sulfonated azo dye, Green HE4B.	The objective of the study was to execute mutant bacteria for efficient biodegradation of sulfonated azo dye, Green HE4B (GHE4B). UV irradiation was used to introduce random mutations in Pseudomonas sp. LBC1. Genetic alterations induced by UV irradiation in selected mutant bacteria were confirmed by random amplification of polymorphic DNA technique. The mutant bacteria named as Pseudomonas sp. 1 F reduced the time required for complete degradation of recalcitrant dye GHE4B by 25 % when compared with the wild one. The biodegradation was monitored by UV-Vis spectrophotometric analysis. Activities of enzymes like laccase, lignin peroxidase, veratryl alcohol oxidase, and NADH dichlorophenol indophenol reductase were found to be boosted in mutant bacteria as a consequence of UV-induced mutation. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight analysis of differentially expressed proteins of mutant bacteria suggested active role of antioxidant enzymes in the degradation of the dye. The degradation product was analyzed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, high-performance thin-layer chromatography, and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Results revealed few variations in the degradation end products of wild-type and mutant bacteria. Phytotoxicity study underlined the safer biodegradation of GHE4B by mutant Pseudomonas sp. 1 F. 
1980522	19901001	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 	A new family of polymorphic genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: alpha-galactosidase genes MEL1-MEL7.	Using genetic hybridization analysis we identified seven polymorphic genes for the fermentation of melibiose in different Mel+ strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Four laboratory strains (1453-3A, 303-49, N2, C.B.11) contained only the MEL1 gene and a wild strain (VKM Y-1830) had only the MEL2 gene. Another wild strain (CBS 4411) contained five genes: MEL3, MEL4, MEL5, MEL6 and MEL7. MEL3-MEL7 were isolated and identified by backcrosses with Mel- parents (X2180-1A, S288C). A cloned MEL1 gene was used as a probe to investigate the physical structure and chromosomal location of the MEL gene family and to check the segregation of MEL genes from CBS 4411 in six complete tetrads. Restriction and Southern hybridization analyses showed that all seven genes are physically very similar. By electrokaryotyping we found that all seven genes are located on different chromosomes: MEL1 on chromosome II as shown previously by Voll-rath et al. (1988), MEL2 on VII, MEL3 on XVI, MEL4 on XI, MEL5 on IV. MEL6 on XIII, and MEL7 on VI. Molecular analysis of the segregation of MEL genes from strain CBS 4411 gave results identical to those from the genetic analyses. The homology in the physical structure of this MEL gene family suggests that the MEL loci have evolved by transposition of an ancestral gene to specific locations within the genome. 
12855726	20030712	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Different roles for the stress-activated protein kinase pathway in the regulation of trehalose metabolism in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	The Wis1p-Sty1p mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade is a major signalling system in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe for a wide range of stress responses. It is known that trehalose functions as a protective metabolite to counteract deleterious effects of environmental stresses. Herein it is reported that the expression of genes related to trehalose metabolism in S. pombe, ntp1(+) (neutral trehalase) and tps1(+) [trehalose-6-phosphate (T6P) synthase], is partially regulated by the Sty1p kinase under salt-induced osmotic stress and conditions of slight oxidative stress and is fully dependent on this kinase under severe oxidative stress. This control is carried out through transcription factors Atf1p/Pcr1p during osmotic stress and through Pap1p during exposure to low levels of oxidative stress. However, all three transcription factors are needed for gene expression under conditions of extreme oxidative stress. In addition, a role for Sty1p in the modulation of post-transcriptional activation of trehalase mediated by Pka1p/Sck1p kinases, as well as in the activity of T6P synthase under such stressful conditions has been demonstrated. These results reveal a novel dual action of the Wis1p-Sty1p pathway in the regulation of trehalose metabolism in fission yeast. 
7789807	19950526	Gene	D016428 	The gene encoding the beta-1,4-endoglucanase (CelA) from Myxococcus xanthus: evidence for independent acquisition by horizontal transfer of binding and catalytic domains from actinomycetes.	The celA gene encoding a beta-1,4 endoglucanase (CelA) from Myxococcus xanthus has been cloned in Escherichia coli and sequenced. The C-terminal region of CelA displayed a high level of similarity with the catalytic domain of several Egl belonging to the glycosyl hydrolases family 6 (CenA from Cellulomonas fimi, CelA from Microbispora bispora, E2 from Thermonospora fusca, CasA from Streptomyces KSM9 and CelA1 from Streptomyces halstedii) and less similarity to the cellobiohydrolases of the fungi Trichoderma reesei and Agaricus bisporus. Using PCR amplification we found in another myxobacterium, Stigmatella aurantiaca, a part of a glycosyl hydrolase belonging to the same family. The N-terminal part of CelA displayed significant similarities with the cellulose-binding domain of other cellulases belonging to a rare subset of family II, such as the avicelase I from Streptomyces reticuli, both tandem repeats N1 and N2 of the cellulase CenC from Cellulomonas fimi, and the N-terminal part of the Egl E1 from Thermonospora fusca. Analyses of the multiple alignments and reconstruction of phylogenetic trees strongly suggest that both domains of CelA were acquired by independent horizontal transfers between Gram+ soil bacteria and scavenging myxobacteria followed by domain shuffling. 
12690418	20030412	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of Aspergillus oryzae fermentation extract effects on the rumen fungus Neocallimastix frontalis, EB 188. Part 2. Carbon source utilization and effects on zoospore production.	The effect of a commercial Aspergillus oryzae fermentation extract on the utilization of carbon source and zoospore production by the rumen fungus Neocallimastix frontalis EB 188 was determined. In addition, the composition of a soluble extract prepared from the commercial product was analyzed. This extract was added to N. frontalis EB 188 cultures grown on a variety of substrates and periodically assayed for protein, enzymes, zoospore production, and carbon source utilization. The powdered product contained 93% dry matter, more than 3,000 A. oryzaespores per gram, and did not contain strong buffers or high concentrations of salt. Measurable concentrations of DNA, protein, carbohydrate and several enzymes including cellulase and amylase were also found. Soluble extract increased fungal physiology and treated cultures produced significantly higher levels of supernatant protein and enzymes including amylase, cellulase and beta-glucosidase. The fungal response depended on culture carbon source. However, culture zoospore production was increased regardless of substrate provided. Culture utilization of glucose was more rapid in treated cultures, yet high levels of the extract greatly inhibited glucose utilization. 
14520957	20031003	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 D016454 	[Lytic enzymes of Trichoderma and their role in protecting plants from fungal diseases].	Lytic enzymes of mycoparasitic fungi of the genus Trichoderma, capable of suppressing several fungal phytopathogens that originate in air or soil, are reviewed. The topics analyzed include (1) regulation of production of chitinases, beta-1,3-glucanases, and proteases; (2) molecular and catalytic properties of purified enzymes; and (3) their in vitro ability to degrade cell walls and inhibit sporulation or germ-tube elongation in various phytopathogenic fungi. Among the results summarized are reports of cloning the expression of genes coding for certain lytic enzymes of Trichoderma spp. These genes are used for obtaining plant transgenes with increased resistance to fungal diseases and Trichoderma transformants that produce higher levels of one lytic enzyme (a chitinase or protease) and thereby exhibit a more pronounced ability to suppress phytopathogenic fungi. 
24252625	20131121	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Production of chitooligosaccharides from Rhizopus oligosporus NRRL2710 cells by chitosanase digestion.	The intact cells of Rhizopus oligosporus NRRL2710, whose cell walls are abundant source of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) and glucosamine (GlcN), were digested with three chitinolytic enzymes, a GH-46 chitosanase from Streptomyces sp. N174 (CsnN174), a chitinase from Pyrococcus furiosus, and a chitinase from Trichoderma viride, respectively. Solubilization of the intact cells by CsnN174 was found to be the most efficient from solid state CP/MAS (13)C NMR spectroscopy. Chitosanase products from Rhizopus cells were purified by cation exchange chromatography on CM-Sephadex C-25 and gel-filtration on Cellulofine Gcl-25m. NMR and MALDI-TOF-MS analyses of the purified products revealed that GlcN-GlcNAc, (GlcN)2-GlcNAc, and (GlcN)2 were produced by the enzymatic digestion of the intact cells. The chitosanase digestion of Rhizopus cells was found to be an excellent system for the conversion of fungal biomass without any environmental impact.  
16775790	20060616	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of polysaccharidases in different carbon sources by Leucoagaricus gongylophorus Möller (Singer), the symbiotic fungus of the leaf-cutting ant Atta sexdens Linnaeus.	Leucoagaricus gongylophorus, the fungus cultured by the leaf-cutting ant Atta sexdens, produces polysaccharidases that degrade leaf components by generating nutrients believed to be essential for ant nutrition. We evaluated pectinase, amylase, xylanase, and cellulase production by L. gongylophorus in laboratory cultures and found that polysaccharidases are produced during fungal growth on pectin, starch, cellulose, xylan, or glucose but not cellulase, whose production is inhibited during fungal growth on xylan. Pectin was the carbon source that best stimulated the production of enzymes, which showed that pectinase had the highest production activity of all of the carbon sources tested, indicating that the presence of pectin and the production of pectinase are key features for symbiotic nutrition on plant material. During growth on starch and cellulose, polysaccharidase production level was intermediate, although during growth on xylan and glucose, enzyme production was very low. We propose a possible profile of polysaccharide degradation inside the nest, where the fungus is cultured on the foliar substrate. 
9200810	19970615	Yeast	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Reconstitution of the NF-kappa B system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae for isolation of effectors by phenotype modulation.	NF-kappa B is a ubiquitous transcription factor that contributes to the induction of many genes playing a central role in immune and inflammatory responses. The NF-kappa B proteins are subject to multiple regulatory influences including post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation and proteolytic processing. A very important component of this regulation is the control of their subcellular localization: cytoplasmic retention of NF-kappa B is achieved through interaction with I kappa B molecules. In response to extracellular signals, these molecules undergo degradation, NF-kappa B translocates to the nucleus and activates its target genes. To investigate novel proteins involved in this dynamic response, we have reconstituted the NF-kappa B/I kappa Beta system in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We have successively introduced p65, the main transcriptional activator of the NF-kappa B family, which leads to the activation of two reporter genes controlled by kappa B sites, and the I kappa B alpha inhibitory protein, which abolishes this activation. By transforming such a yeast strain with a cDNA library we have performed a genetic screen for cDNAs encoding proteins capable of either dissociating the p65/I kappa B alpha complex or directly transactivating the expression of the reporter genes. The efficiency of our screen was demonstrated by the isolation of a cDNA encoding the p105 precursor of the p50 subunit of NF-kappa B. We also used this system to test stimuli known to activate signalling pathways in yeast, in order to investigate whether the related mammalian cascades might be involved in NF-kappa B activation. We showed that yeast endogenous kinase cascades activated by pheromone, hypo- or hyperosmotic shock cannot modulate NF-kappa B activity in our system, and that the p38 human MAP kinase does not act directly on the p65/I kappa B alpha complex. 
7894714	19950101	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Starvation stress modulates the expression of the Aspergillus nidulans brlA regulatory gene.	Expression of the Aspergillus nidulans brlA gene plays a fundamental role in the switch from vegetative growth to asexual reproduction. Using a media-shifting protocol to induce submerged sporulation and brlA-lacZ as an expression marker, it was shown that carbon and nitrogen starvation stress induced brlA transcription to different degrees. Glucose starvation induced briA rapidly to high levels and resulted in spore formation on reduced conidiophores, whereas nitrogen starvation induced brlA gradually to lower levels and sporulation occurred to a lesser extent but from more complex conidiophores. beta-Galactosidase activity paralleled brlA alpha and brlA beta mRNA. No clear qualitative differences between the two brlA transcripts were found in these starvation conditions, suggesting that the different patterns of sporulation could be explained by quantitative expression differences. Since brlA mRNA did not accumulate in the presence of a high glucose concentration, we investigated the role of other carbon sources on brlA expression. Non-repressing carbon sources such as glycerol, acetate and arabinose were as effective as glucose in preventing brlA mRNA accumulation, suggesting that the glucose effects on brlA expression could be explained as a response to nutrient starvation, rather than by carbon catabolite repression. Despite similar low levels of brlA transcripts being detected during growth in glucose or non-repressing carbon sources, conidiophores were formed only in medium containing glycerol, acetate or arabinose. When mycelia were not shifted to starvation conditions, sporulation was not observed in standard minimal medium even after glucose was exhausted, unless the medium was buffered.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
16209542	20051008	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 D013486 	Production of GFP and glucoamylase by recombinant Aspergillus niger: effects of fermentation conditions on fungal morphology and protein secretion.	The effect of filamentous fungal morphology on heterologous protein secretion was investigated using the recombinant Aspergillus niger strain AB4.1[pgpdAGLAGFP], which contained the gene coded for the GLA-GFP (glucoamylase-green fluorescence protein) fusion protein. Three culturing systems were studied to develop different morphological forms of the fungus. Free-cell cultures in conventional stirred-tank bioreactors grew in pellet form with various sizes depending on culturing conditions. Cells immobilized on cotton cloth grew in mycelial form in a rotating fibrous bed (RFB) and a static fibrous bed (SFB) bioreactors. The expression of the fusion protein was growth-associated and dependent on the fungal morphology. Immobilized cells produced 10-fold more GFP and glucoamylase than well-oxygenated free-cell pellets. In free-cell cultures, excretion of the fusion protein occurred mainly from cell autolysis, when oxygen or nutrient were depleted, whereas protein secretion took place from the beginning of the fermentation in immobilized-cell cultures. Also, protein secretion was found to be strongly dependent on morphology. Small pellets of a 1-mm size secreted 82% of GFP produced, whereas 43% of GFP remained intracellular in larger pellets of 5 mm. Complete secretion of GFP was obtained with cells immobilized on the fibrous matrix. The improvement in heterologous protein synthesis and secretion can be attributed to the filamentous mycelial morphology since protein secretion occurred predominantly at the tips of growing hyphae. Secretion of proteases occurred mainly in the stationary phase or when cell autolysis were induced by nutrient depletion and was not dependent on morphology, although immobilizing the cells also reduced protease activity. The RFB bioreactor gave the best fermentation performance because of its ability to control the cell morphology that was amenable to efficient oxygen transfer and protein secretion. 
17896135	20070927	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Antifungal activity of chitinases from Trichoderma aureoviride DY-59 and Rhizopus microsporus VS-9.	Two chitinolytic fungal strains, Trichoderma aureoviride DY-59 and Rhizopus microsporus VS-9, were isolated from soil samples of Korea and Vietnam, respectively. DY-59 and VS-9 crude chitinases secreted by these fungi in the 0.5% swollen chitin culture medium had an optimal pH of 4 and the optimal temperatures of 40 degrees C and 60 degrees C, respectively. Enzymatic hydrolysis products from crab swollen chitin were N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) by DY-59 chitinase, and GlcNAc and N, N'-diacetylchitobiose (GlcNAc)2 by VS-9 chitinases. The chitinases degraded the cell wall of Fusarium solani hyphae to produce oligosaccharides, among which GlcNAc, (GlcNAc)2, and pentamer (GlcNAc)5 were identified by high-pressure liquid chromatography. DY-59 and VS-9 chitinases inhibited F. solani microconidial germination by more than 70% and 60% at final protein concentrations of 5 and 27 microg mL(-1), respectively, at 30 degrees C for 20 h treatment. 
18048915	20071201	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Phylogenetic and biochemical characterization of a novel cluster of intracellular fungal alpha-amylase enzymes.	Currently known fungal alpha-amylases are well-characterized extracellular enzymes that are classified into glycoside hydrolase subfamily GH13_1. This study describes the identification, and phylogenetic and biochemical analysis of novel intracellular fungal alpha-amylases. The phylogenetic analysis shows that they cluster in the recently identified subfamily GH13_5 and display very low similarity to fungal alpha-amylases of family GH13_1. Homologues of these intracellular enzymes are present in the genome sequences of all filamentous fungi studied, including ascomycetes and basidiomycetes. One of the enzymes belonging to this new group, Amy1p from Histoplasma capsulatum, has recently been functionally linked to the formation of cell wall alpha-glucan. To study the biochemical characteristics of this novel cluster of alpha-amylases, we overexpressed and purified a homologue from Aspergillus niger, AmyD, and studied its activity product profile with starch and related substrates. AmyD has a relatively low hydrolysing activity on starch (2.2 U mg(-1)), producing mainly maltotriose. A possible function of these enzymes in relation to cell wall alpha-glucan synthesis is discussed. 
2518813	19890101	Electron_Microsc._Rev.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Cytochemical localization of beta-(1----4)-D-glucans in plant and fungal cells using an exoglucanase-gold complex.	An exoglucanase (exo-1,4-beta-glucanase), purified from a cellulase produced by the fungus Trichoderma harzianum, was tagged with colloidal gold particles and applied on plant and fungal tissue sections for localizing beta-(1----4)-linked glucans. The present review reports the conditions required for the preparation of this enzyme-gold complex and for its application in transmission electron microscopy. The exoglucanase-gold complex was found to be a powerful probe for labelling accurately cellulosic glucans in tissues processed under conventional procedures. This approach represents a promising alternative to previous methods such as autoradiography or subtractive cytochemistry in the study of wall topochemistry. It will undoubtedly acquire increasing applicability and relevance in various fields of plant science including physiology and pathology. 
21666025	20110614	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Addition of genes for cellobiase and pectinolytic activity in Escherichia coli for fuel ethanol production from pectin-rich lignocellulosic biomass.	Ethanologenic Escherichia coli strain KO11 was sequentially engineered to contain the Klebsiella oxytoca cellobiose phosphotransferase genes (casAB) as well as a pectate lyase (pelE) from Erwinia chrysanthemi, yielding strains LY40A (casAB) and JP07 (casAB pelE), respectively. To obtain an effective secretion of PelE, the Sec-dependent pathway out genes from E. chrysanthemi were provided on a cosmid to strain JP07 to construct strain JP07C. Finally, oligogalacturonide lyase (ogl) from E. chrysanthemi was added to produce strain JP08C. E. coli strains LY40A, JP07, JP07C, and JP08C possessed significant cellobiase activity in cell lysates, while only strains JP07C and JP08C demonstrated extracellular pectate lyase activity. Fermentations conducted by using a mixture of pure sugars representative of the composition of sugar beet pulp (SBP) showed that strains LY40A, JP07, JP07C, and JP08C were able to ferment cellobiose, resulting in increased ethanol production from 15 to 45% in comparison to that of KO11. Fermentations with SBP at very low fungal enzyme loads during saccharification revealed significantly higher levels of ethanol production for LY40A, JP07C, and JP08C than for KO11. JP07C ethanol yields were not considerably higher than those of LY40A; however, oligogalacturonide polymerization studies showed an increased breakdown of biomass to small-chain (degree of polymerization, ≤6) oligogalacturonides. JP08C achieved a further breakdown of polygalacturonate to monomeric sugars, resulting in a 164% increase in ethanol yields compared to those of KO11. The addition of commercial pectin methylesterase (PME) further increased JP08C ethanol production compared to that of LY40A by demethylating the pectin for enzymatic attack by pectin-degrading enzymes. 
9873419	19990105	Bioorg._Med._Chem._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Ascorbic acid-based inhibitors of alpha-amylases.	A series of ascorbic acid and isoascorbic acid derivatives has been evaluated as inhibitors of malt, bacterial, fungal, pancreatic and salivary alpha-amylases using a simple and quick assay procedure. The results demonstrate that the enediol moiety of ascorbic acid is essential for alpha-amylase inhibition. Acylation of the primary and secondary alcohols, and the absolute configuration of the secondary alcohol, do not affect the potency of inhibition. 
15830675	20050416	J._Food_Prot.	D016428 D013485 	A beta-glucuronidase-based agar medium for the differential detection of the yeast Debaryomyces hansenii from foods.	A selective and differential solid medium, Debaryomyces differential medium (DDM), was used for the isolation of Debaryomyces hansenii. This medium is formulated to allow detection of the beta-glucuronidase enzyme using the chromogenic substrate magenta-glucuro.CHA (5Br-6Cl-3indolyl-beta-D-glucuronide, cyclohexylammonium salt). Of the more than 120 microorganisms tested, including yeasts, bacteria, and a filamentous fungus, only D. hansenii produced violet colonies, thus permitting its easy discrimination from other organisms. When quality assessment tests were performed, optimal productivity and selectivity were obtained for D. hansenii. The medium was also satisfactory when used to test naturally contaminated food products. 
16306682	20051125	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D016454 	Taka-amylase A in the conidia of Aspergillus oryzae RIB40.	A study of Taka-amylase A of conidia from Aspergillus oryzae RIB40 was done. During the research, proteins from conidia and germinated conidia were analyzed using SDS-PAGE, 2-D gel electrophoresis, Western blot analysis, MALDI-TOF Mass spectrometry, and native-PAGE combined with activity staining of TAA. The results showed that TAA exists not only in germinated conidia but also in conidia. Some bands representing degraded products of TAA were detected. Conidia, which formed on starch (SCYA), glucose (DCYA), and glycerol (GCYA) plates, contained mature TAA. Only one active band of TAA was detected after native-PAGE activity staining. In addition, TAA activity was detected in cell extracts of conidia using 0.5 M acetate buffer, pH 5.2, as extraction buffer, but was not detected in whole conidia or cell debris. The results indicate that TAA exists in conidia in active form even when starch, glucose, or glycerol is used as carbon source. TAA might belong to a set of basal proteins inside conidia, which helps in imbibition and germination of conidia. 
23786663	20130622	FEBS_J.	D016428 D013485 	A steady-state theory for processive cellulases.	Processive enzymes perform sequential steps of catalysis without dissociating from their polymeric substrate. This mechanism is considered essential for efficient enzymatic hydrolysis of insoluble cellulose (particularly crystalline cellulose), but a theoretical framework for processive kinetics remains to be fully developed. In this paper, we suggest a deterministic kinetic model that relies on a processive set of enzyme reactions and a quasi steady-state assumption. It is shown that this approach is practicable in the sense that it leads to mathematically simple expressions for the steady-state rate, and only requires data from standard assay techniques as experimental input. Specifically, it is shown that the processive reaction rate at steady state may be expressed by a hyperbolic function related to the conventional Michaelis-Menten equation. The main difference is a 'kinetic processivity coefficient', which represents the probability of the enzyme dissociating from the substrate strand before completing n sequential catalytic steps, where n is the mean processivity number measured experimentally. Typical processive cellulases have high substrate affinity, and therefore this probability is low. This has significant kinetic implications, for example the maximal specific rate (V(max)/E₀) for processive cellulases is much lower than the catalytic rate constant (k(cat)). We discuss how relationships based on this theory may be used in both comparative and mechanistic analyses of cellulases. 
16685742	20060511	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013486 	A functionally based model for hydrolysis of cellulose by fungal cellulase.	A new functionally based kinetic model for enzymatic hydrolysis of pure cellulose by the Trichoderma cellulase system is presented. The model represents the actions of cellobiohydrolases I, cellobiohydrolase II, and endoglucanase I; and incorporates two measurable and physically interpretable substrate parameters: the degree of polymerization (DP) and the fraction of beta-glucosidic bonds accessible to cellulase, F(a) (Zhang and Lynd, 2004). Initial enzyme-limited reaction rates simulated by the model are consistent with several important behaviors reported in the literature, including the effects of substrate characteristics on exoglucanase and endoglucanase activities; the degree of endo/exoglucanase synergy; the endoglucanase partition coefficient on hydrolysis rates; and enzyme loading on relative reaction rates for different substrates. This is the first cellulase kinetic model involving a single set of kinetic parameters that is successfully applied to a variety of cellulosic substrates, and the first that describes more than one behavior associated with enzymatic hydrolysis. The model has potential utility for data accommodation and design of industrial processes, structuring, testing, and extending understanding of cellulase enzyme systems when experimental date are available, and providing guidance for functional design of cellulase systems at a molecular scale. Opportunities to further refine cellulase kinetic models are discussed, including parameters that would benefit from further study. 
11251104	20010317	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013486 	Gibberellin/abscisic acid antagonism in barley aleurone cells: site of action of the protein kinase PKABA1 in relation to gibberellin signaling molecules.	The antagonism between gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) is an important factor regulating the developmental transition from embryogenesis to seed germination. In barley aleurone layers, the expression of genes encoding alpha-amylases and proteases is induced by GA but suppressed by ABA. It has been shown that an ABA-induced protein kinase, PKABA1, mediates the ABA suppression of alpha-amylase expression. Using a barley aleurone transient expression system, we have now localized the site of action of PKABA1 relative to other signal transduction components governing the expression of alpha-amylase. The expression of alpha-amylase can be transactivated by the transcription factor GAMyb, which is itself induced by GA. A truncated GAMyb containing the DNA binding domain but lacking the transactivation domain prevents the GA induction of alpha-amylase, further supporting the notion that GAMyb mediates the GA induction of alpha-amylase expression. Although ABA and PKABA1 strongly inhibit the GA induction of alpha-amylase, they have no effect on GAMyb-transactivated alpha-amylase expression. Using a GAMyb promoter--beta-glucuronidase construct, we also show that both ABA and PKABA1 repress the GA induction of GAMyb. In the slender mutant, GAMyb and alpha-amylase are highly expressed, even in the absence of GA. However, this constitutive expression can still be inhibited by ABA, PKABA1, or an inhibitor of cGMP synthesis. On the basis of these observations, we suggest that PKABA1 acts upstream from the formation of functional GAMyb but downstream from the site of action of the Slender gene product. Because PKABA1 inhibits the GA induction of the GAMyb promoter--beta-glucuronidase construct, it appears that at least part of the action of PKABA1 is to downregulate GAMyb at the transcriptional level. 
9846753	19981210	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 	A 1,3-beta-glucanosyltransferase isolated from the cell wall of Aspergillus fumigatus is a homologue of the yeast Bgl2p.	A 1,3-beta-glucanosyltransferase which introduces intrachain 1,6-beta linkages into 1,3-beta-glucan was isolated from the cell wall of Aspergillus fumigatus. The biochemical and molecular characterization of the A. fumigatus transferase showed it was homologous to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans transferase Bgl2p. A null mutant constructed in A. fumigatus by gene replacement did not show a distinct phenotype from the parental strain. The putative function of this major cell-wall-associated protein is discussed. 
21261079	20110126	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Increase in glucoamylase productivity of Aspergillus awamori strain by combination of radiating mutagenesis and plasmid transformation methods].	Increase in the level of amylolytic genes activator protein encoded by amyR gene was shown to result in enhancement of glucoamylase productivity of A. awamori strain by 30%. However, the same effect equal to 30% increase can be achieved by introduction of extra copies of gla gene encoding glucoamylase. These two effects were not additive, which gave the possibility to suggest an additional limitation in the egulation mechanism of glucoamylase gene expression in Aspergillus family strains while introducing an additional copies of amyR and gla genes. 
1841860	19910101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	Production of extracellular cellulase by Lunulospora curvula and Flagellospora penicillioides.	Studies on the production of extracellular cellulase in two aquatic hyphomycetes Lunulospora curvula and Flagellospora penicillioides have shown that several factors such as carbon source, nitrogen source, pH and temperature affect the production of the enzyme. Experiments have shown that carboxymethyl cellulose is the best source of carbon, and ammonium sulfate is the best source of nitrogen for the production of the enzyme. An optimum pH of 5.2 and a temperature of 28 degrees C was found to favor maximum enzyme activity in 12-d-old cultures. Glucose and sucrose were found to suppress the activity of the enzyme in both organisms. 
12754825	20030521	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Mechanism of overproduction of secreted enzymes in the mycelial fungus Penicillium canescens].	The fungus Penicillium canescens strain F178 (VKPM) and its niaD- mutant exhibited an increased capability of synthesizing extracellular enzymes beta-galactosidase (70-80 U/ml) and xylanase (100 U/ml). The synthesis was induced by arabinose and its catabolite, arabitol. A deficiency in arabitol dehydrogenase, leading to arabitol accumulation in the cell, was detected in the chain of reactions of arabinose catabolism. The increased synthesis of beta-galactosidase and xylanase in P. canescens is accounted for by (1) cellular accumulation of the inducer (arabitol) at low concentrations of arabinose in the medium and (2) prevalence of induction over repression. 
22146618	20111208	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of cellulose physical characteristics, especially the water sorption value, on the efficiency of its hydrolysis catalyzed by free or immobilized cellulase.	Cellulase, an enzymatic complex that synergically promotes the degradation of cellulose to glucose and cellobiose, free or adsorbed onto Si/SiO(2) wafers at 60°C has been employed as catalyst in the hydrolysis of microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel), microcrystalline cellulose pre-treated with hot phosphoric acid (CP), cotton cellulose (CC) and eucalyptus cellulose (EC). The physical characteristics such as index of crystallinity (I(C)), degree of polymerization (DP) and water sorption values were determined for all samples. The largest conversion rates of cellulose into the above-mentioned products using free cellulase were observed for samples with the largest water sorption values; conversion rates showed no correlation with either I(C) or DP of the biopolymer. Cellulose with large water sorption value possesses large pore volumes, hence higher accessibility. The catalytic efficiency of immobilized cellulase could not be correlated with the physical characteristics of cellulose samples. The hydrolysis rates of the same cellulose samples with immobilized cellulase were lower than those by the free enzyme, due to the diffusion barrier (biopolymer chains approaching to the immobilized enzyme) and less effective contact between the enzyme active site and its substrate. Immobilized cellulase, unlike its free counterpart, can be recycled at least six times without loss of catalytic activity, leading to higher overall cellulose conversion. 
22382066	20120303	Yi_Chuan	D016428 D013485 	[Cloning and functional analysis of chitinase gene GbCHI from sea-island cotton (Gossypium barbadense)].	Chitinase is one of the important pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins in plants. By comparative proteomics study, a novel pathogen-responsive chitinase (known as GbCHI) has been identified from sea-island cotton (Gossypium barbadense). The GbCHI cDNA was cloned from wilt-resistant sea-island cotton and the anti-fungal activity of the gene product was investigated. qRT-PCR analysis indicated that GbCHI was expressed constitutively in root, stem, leaf, flower, and ovule of cotton plant, and the expression could be induced by Verticillium dahliae and plant hormone SA, ACC, and JA. Subcellular localization analysis using GFP-tagged proteins showed that GbCHI-GFP fusion proteins were targeted mainly to the plasma membrane. Anti-fungal assay demonstrated that GbCHI could inhibit spore germination and hyphae growth of V. dahliae significantly. These results provide important information for understanding the cellular function of GbCHI and for exploring the application potential of this gene in molecular breeding of wilt-tolerant cotton plants. 
11324720	20010428	Life_Sci.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of velutin, a novel low-molecular-weight ribosome-inactivating protein from winter mushroom (Flammulina velutipes) fruiting bodies.	From the fruiting bodies of the edible mushroom Flammulina velutipes a single-chained ribosome inactivating protein with a molecular weight of 13.8 kDa was isolated with a procedure involving ion exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose and SP-Sepharose and affinity chromatography on Affi-gel blue gel. The protein was novel in that it possessed a molecular weight lower than those of previously reported RIPs and that it was capable of inhibiting human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase, beta-glucosidase and beta-glucuronidase. Its N-terminal sequence exhibited a certain degree of similarity to those of plant ribosome inactivating proteins. 
2281870	19900901	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Detection of chitin deacetylase activity after polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.	Mucor racemosus and Rhizopus nigricans were used as sources of chitin deacetylases. Crude protein extracts were subjected to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at pH 8.9 (Davis system) or 4.3 (Reisfeld system) under native conditions. After electrophoresis, an overlay gel containing 0.1% (w/v) glycol chitin as substrate was incubated in contact with the separation gel. Chitin deacetylase activity was revealed by uv illumination with a transilluminator after staining for 5 min in 0.01% (w/v) Calcofluor white M2R. Chitosan (deacetylated chitin) generated by chitin deacetylases appeared more fluorescent than the intact chitin embedded in the overlay gel. Chitosan in a separate overlay gel was also subjected to a nitrous acid treatment which specifically depolymerizes chitosan while leaving chitin intact. Hydrolysis of chitosan by nitrous acid followed by Calcofluor staining yielded dark (nonfluorescent) bands (chitin deacetylase activities) in the fluorescent chitin-containing gel. Both assays revealed the presence of several chitin deacetylases from Zygomycetes. The same assays were performed after denaturing electrophoresis in 12% (w/v) polyacrylamide gels containing 0.1% (w/v) glycol chitin. Enzymes were renatured in buffered 1% (v/v) purified Triton X-100. Chitin deacetylases with estimated molecular weights between 26,000 and 64,000 were detected after Calcofluor staining. The assays were also performed in two-dimensional gel electrophoretic systems. Chitin deacetylases can be rapidly revealed by using the assay involving the nitrous acid treatment. However, both assays (with and without nitrous acid treatment) should be run to conclusively demonstrate chitin deacetylase activity after polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 
24358718	20131224	Ecology	D016428 D013486 	Altered precipitation regime affects the function and composition of soil microbial communities on multiple time scales.	Climate change models predict that future precipitation patterns will entail lower-frequency but larger rainfall events, increasing the duration of dry soil conditions. Resulting shifts in microbial C cycling activity could affect soil C storage. Further, microbial response to rainfall events may be constrained by the physiological or nutrient limitation stress of extended drought periods; thus seasonal or multiannual precipitation regimes may influence microbial activity following soil wet-up. We quantified rainfall-driven dynamics of microbial processes that affect soil C loss and retention, and microbial community composition, in soils from a long-term (14-year) field experiment contrasting "Ambient" and "Altered" (extended intervals between rainfalls) precipitation regimes. We collected soil before, the day following, and five days following 2.5-cm rainfall events during both moist and dry periods (June and September 2011; soil water potential = -0.01 and -0.83 MPa, respectively), and measured microbial respiration, microbial biomass, organic matter decomposition potential (extracellular enzyme activities), and microbial community composition (phospholipid fatty acids). The equivalent rainfall events caused equivalent microbial respiration responses in both treatments. In contrast, microbial biomass was higher and increased after rainfall in the Altered treatment soils only, thus microbial C use efficiency (CUE) was higher in Altered than Ambient treatments (0.70 +/- 0.03 > 0.46 +/- 0.10). CUE was also higher in dry (September) soils. C-acquiring enzyme activities (beta-glucosidase, cellobiohydrolase, and phenol oxidase) increased after rainfall in moist (June), but not dry (September) soils. Both microbial biomass C:N ratios and fungal:bacterial ratios were higher at lower soil water contents, suggesting a functional and/or population-level shift in the microbiota at low soil water contents, and microbial community composition also differed following wet-up and between seasons and treatments. Overall, microbial activity may directly (C respiration) and indirectly (enzyme potential) reduce soil organic matter pools less in drier soils, and soil C sequestration potential (CUE) may be higher in soils with a history of extended dry periods between rainfall events. The implications include that soil C loss may be reduced or compensated for via different mechanisms at varying time scales, and that microbial taxa with better stress tolerance or growth efficiency may be associated with these functional shifts. 
10963707	20000830	Ann_Occup_Hyg	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparison of four methods to assess fungal alpha-amylase in flour dust.	The aim of the study was to compare four different immunological methods to analyse fungal alpha-amylase in flour dust samples. Three European research groups have independently developed four immuno assay based methods to measure alpha-amylase in air samples. Three of the methods use polyclonal antibodies and one method uses monoclonal antibodies. Eighty personal samples have been collected during two to three work-shifts in four bakeries. Sampling was performed with PAS-6 inhalable dust samplers and aliquots from each sample were analysed by the three laboratories. The agreement between the four methods was high compared with agreement between immunological methods to measure other allergens in the air, e.g. for rat allergens. For the three methods with polyclonal antibodies the mean differences for individual samples was less than a factor of two. The arithmetic means (AM) of the estimated alpha-amylase exposure were 12.5, 11.3, 8.6 and 25.9ng/m(3) for the respective methods with values ranging from below the detection limit to 192, 215, 207 and 615 ng/m(3). The AM for all samples analysed by the methods with polyclonal antibodies varied by about a factor of 1.5. About one-third of the values were below or at the detection limit for all methods. In a regression analysis the squared correlation coefficients (R(2)) between the methods varied between 0.91 and 0.95 for the log transformed values. For workplace monitoring, results from the methods using polyclonal antibodies will be relatively comparable. High levels of alpha-amylase might differ in absolute numbers with a factor of two or more between the different methods but will anyway be considered as high and should result in preventive actions. On the other hand, this study also shows that despite the relative agreement between methods, there is a clear need for standardization. 
19727949	20090904	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 	Biocontrol ability of Lysobacter antibioticus HS124 against Phytophthora blight is mediated by the production of 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid and several lytic enzymes.	Several rhizobacteria play a vital role in plant protection, plant growth promotion and the improvement of soil health. In this study, we have isolated a strain of Lysobacter antibioticus HS124 from rhizosphere and demonstrate its antifungal activity against various pathogens including Phytophthora capsici, a destructive pathogen of pepper plants. L. antibioticus HS124 produced lytic enzymes such as chitinase, beta-1,3-glucanase, lipase, protease, and an antibiotic compound. This antibiotic compound was purified by diaion HP-20, silica gel, sephadex LH-20 column chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography. The purified compound was identified as 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid by gas chromatography-electron ionization (GC-EI) and gas chromatography-chemical ionization (GC-CI) mass spectrometry. This antibiotic exhibited destructive activity toward P. capsici hyphae. In vivo experiments utilizing green house grown pepper plants demonstrated the protective effect of L. antibioticus HS124 against P. capsici. The growth of pepper plants treated with L. antibioticus culture was enhanced, resulting in greater protection from fungal disease. Optimum growth and protection was found when cultures were grown in presence of Fe(III). Additionally, the activities of pathogenesis-related proteins such as chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase decreased in roots, but increased in leaves with time after treatment compared to controls. Our results demonstrate L. antibioticus HS124 as a promising candidate for biocontrol of P. capsici in pepper plants. 
21535352	20110504	Mol._Plant_Pathol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of differentially expressed genes in a resistant versus a susceptible blueberry cultivar after infection by Colletotrichum acutatum.	Anthracnose fruit rot, caused by the fungus Colletotrichum acutatum, is an important disease of blueberry worldwide. The cultivar Elliott is resistant, severely restricting fungal growth and sporulation relative to the susceptible cultivar Jersey. The objectives of this research were as follows: (i) to analyse pre-penetration events in 'Elliott' and 'Jersey' at different stages of fruit development; (ii) to identify putative defence genes in 'Elliott' fruit; and (iii) to monitor the timing of the oxidative burst in both cultivars. Light microscopy revealed no differences in the pre-penetration activities of C. acutatum on the immature fruit of both cultivars. However, at fruit ripening, conidia germinated and formed appressoria more rapidly on 'Jersey' than on 'Elliott' fruit. Using suppression subtractive hybridization, 37 differentially expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were detected in 'Elliott' versus 'Jersey' upon infection. Several of the ESTs had homology to known plant defence genes, such as a class II chitinase, pathogenesis-related protein 10 (PR10) and β-1,3-glucanase. Two putative genes involved in oxidative stress were identified: a metallothionein-like protein and monodehydroascorbate reductase. ESTs of fungal origin were also detected. Many ESTs had no homology to known genes. Using semi-quantitative and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), the expression of most of the candidate genes was detected earlier in 'Elliott' than in 'Jersey', some within 24 h post inoculation (hpi). Monitoring of the oxidative burst showed that the overall H(2) O(2) concentration was two to three times higher in 'Elliott' than in 'Jersey' at 24 hpi. The elucidation of the basis of resistance to C. acutatum in blueberry will facilitate the development of new anthracnose fruit rot-resistant cultivars. 
10216305	19990427	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of a Trichoderma reesei beta-mannanase from glycoside hydrolase family 5.	Crystals of the catalytic core domain of a Trichoderma reesei beta-mannanase belonging to glycoside hydrolase family 5 have been grown by the sitting-drop method at room temperature using ammonium sulfate as precipitant. The crystals grow as thin colourless plates and belong to space group P21, with unit-cell parameters a = 50.0, b = 54.3, c = 60.2 A, beta = 111.3 degrees, and have a single monomer of mannanase in the asymmetric unit. Native data to 2.0 A resolution have been collected at room temperature using synchrotron radiation. Data for a platinum derivative have been collected to 1.65 A at 110 K in a very short time at the CCLRC Daresbury synchrotron source, using a charge-coupled device (CCD) as detector. 
20070870	20100115	Plant_Biotechnol._J.	D016428 D052061 D013486 	Chloroplast-derived enzyme cocktails hydrolyse lignocellulosic biomass and release fermentable sugars.	It is widely recognized that biofuel production from lignocellulosic materials is limited by inadequate technology to efficiently and economically release fermentable sugars from the complex multi-polymeric raw materials. Therefore, endoglucanases, exoglucanase, pectate lyases, cutinase, swollenin, xylanase, acetyl xylan esterase, beta glucosidase and lipase genes from bacteria or fungi were expressed in Escherichia coli or tobacco chloroplasts. A PCR-based method was used to clone genes without introns from Trichoderma reesei genomic DNA. Homoplasmic transplastomic lines showed normal phenotype and were fertile. Based on observed expression levels, up to 49, 64 and 10, 751 million units of pectate lyases or endoglucanase can be produced annually, per acre of tobacco. Plant production cost of endoglucanase is 3100-fold, and pectate lyase is 1057 or 1480-fold lower than the same recombinant enzymes sold commercially, produced via fermentation. Chloroplast-derived enzymes had higher temperature stability and wider pH optima than enzymes expressed in E. coli. Plant crude-extracts showed higher enzyme activity than E. coli with increasing protein concentration, demonstrating their direct utility without purification. Addition of E. coli extracts to the chloroplast-derived enzymes significantly decreased their activity. Chloroplast-derived crude-extract enzyme cocktails yielded more (up to 3625%) glucose from filter paper, pine wood or citrus peel than commercial cocktails. Furthermore, pectate lyase transplastomic plants showed enhanced resistance to Erwina soft rot. This is the first report of using plant-derived enzyme cocktails for production of fermentable sugars from lignocellulosic biomass. Limitations of higher cost and lower production capacity of fermentation systems are addressed by chloroplast-derived enzyme cocktails. 
17596184	20070629	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D016428 D016454 	Splitting of the fission yeast septum.	In cell-walled organisms, a cross wall (septum) is produced during cytokinesis, which then splits in certain organisms to allow the daughter cells to separate. The formation and the subsequent cleavage of the septum require wall synthesis and wall degradation, which need to be strictly coordinated in order to prevent cell lysis. The dividing fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces) cell produces a three-layered septum in which the middle layer and a narrow band of the adjacent cell wall can be degraded without threatening the integrity of the separating daughter cells. This spatially very precise process requires the activity of the Agn1p 1,3-alpha-glucanase and the Eng1p 1,3-beta-glucanase, which are localized to the septum by a complex mechanism involving the formation of a septin ring and the directed activity of the exocyst system. The Sep1p-Ace2p transcription-factor cascade regulates the expression of many genes producing proteins for this complex process. Recent advances in research into the molecular mechanisms of separation and its regulation are discussed in this review. 
11807273	20020125	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Preparation and crystallization of selenomethionyl dextranase from Penicillium minioluteum expressed in Pichia pastoris.	Dextranase from the fungus Penicillium minioluteum hydrolyses alpha-1,6-glycosidic bonds in dextran polymers. The enzyme has been expressed in Pichia pastoris in the presence of selenomethionine (SeMet). The level of SeMet incorporation was estimated by amino-acid analysis to be 50%. The protein has been crystallized in space group P2(1)2(1)2, with unit-cell parameters a = 103.6, b = 115.3, c = 49.8 A and one molecule per asymmetric unit. The crystals diffract to 2.0 A and the presence of SeMet in the crystals has been confirmed by an X-ray absorption spectrum. 
21549049	20110510	J._Food_Prot.	D016428 D013485 	Effects of oligochitosan on postharvest Alternaria rot, storage quality, and defense responses in Chinese jujube (Zizyphus jujuba Mill. cv. Dongzao) fruit.	Effects of oligochitosan (OCH) on postharvest rot caused by Alternaria alternata in Chinese jujube (Zizyphus jujuba Mill. cv. Dongzao) fruit were investigated. An in vitro test indicated that mycelial growth of A. alternata was strongly suppressed by OCH at 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10, 15, or 20 g/liter. The half-inhibition concentration of OCH against this fungus was 0.76 and 1.69 g/liter on days 4 and 6 of incubation, respectively. Lesion area and disease incidence in the jujube fruit inoculated with A. alternata were remarkably reduced by the OCH treatments at concentrations higher than 1 g/liter, but 5 g/liter OCH was considered the optimal treatment for inhibiting disease development. OCH also significantly reduced postharvest natural decay, promoted fruit firmness, delayed decline in soluble solids and loss of ascorbic acid, and increased total phenolic compounds during storage at 0°C and 85 to 95% relative humidity. Biochemical evaluations revealed that the activities of the main defense-related enzymes in the jujube fruit, including phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, peroxidase, chitinase, and β-1,3-glucanase, were significantly enhanced (P < 0.05) by OCH treatment. OCH increased superoxide dismutase activity but decreased catalase activity and, consequently, elevated hydrogen peroxide levels in the fruit. These results suggest that OCH might trigger several defense mechanisms in the jujube fruit for disease control in addition to its direct antifungal activity. OCH could be a viable alternative to conventional control of postharvest diseases of horticultural products. 
20596757	20100703	Biodegradation	D023362 D016428 	Biodegradation of paddy straw obtained from different geographic locations by means of Phlebia spp. for animal feed.	Various cereal straws are used as feed by supplementing the green forage or other feed stuffs. An experiment was designed to see the effect of different geographic locations and climatological conditions on biochemical constituents, fungal degradation and in vitro digestibility of paddy straw. Paddy straw (PS) obtained from three different geographic locations of India was subjected to solid state fermentation using four white rot fungi i.e. Phlebia brevispora, P. fascicularia, P. floridensis and P. radiata. Changes in the biochemical constituents like water soluble content, hemicellulose, cellulose, lignin, total organic matter, and in vitro digestibility of paddy straw was analyzed over a period of 60 days along with lignocellulolytic enzymes i.e. laccase, xylanase and carboxymethyl cellulase. All the fungi degraded the straw samples and enhanced the in vitro digestibility. The paddy straw, obtained from north western zone (NWZ) suffered a maximum loss (228 g/kg) of lignin by P. radiata, while a maximum enhancement of in vitro digestibility from 185 to 256 g/kg was achieved by P. brevispora, which also caused minimum loss in total organic matter (98 g/kg). In PS obtained from central eastern zone (CEZ) and north eastern zone (NEZ), a maximum amount of lignin (210 and 195 g/kg, respectively) was degraded by P. floridensis and resulted into a respective enhancement of in vitro digestibility from 172 to 246 g/kg and 188 to 264 g/kg. The study demonstrates that geographic locations not only affect the biochemical constituents of paddy straw but the fungal degradation of fibers, their in vitro digestibility and lignocellulolytic enzyme activity of the fungus may also vary. 
1482195	19921101	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Purification and partial characterization of two feruloyl esterases from the anaerobic fungus Neocallimastix strain MC-2.	Two extracellular feruloyl esterases (FAE-I and FAE-II) produced by the anaerobic fungus Neocallimastix strain MC-2 which cleave ferulic acid from O-(5-O-[(E)-feruloyl]-alpha-L- arabinofuranosyl)-(1-->3)-O-beta-D-xylopyranosyl-(1-->4)-D-xylopyranose (FAXX) were purified. The molecular masses of FAE-I and FAE-II were 69 and 24 kDa, respectively, under both denaturing and nondenaturing conditions. Apparent Km and maximum rate of hydrolysis with FAXX were 31.9 microM and 2.9 mumol min-1 mg-1 for FAE-I and 9.6 microM and 11.4 mumol min-1 mg-1 for FAE-II. FAE-II was specific for FAXX, but FAE-I hydrolyzed FAXX and PAXX, the equivalent p-coumaroyl ester, at a maximum rate of metabolism ratio of 3:1. 
11728159	20011201	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Aspergillus nidulans alpha-1,3 glucanase (mutanase), mutA, is expressed during sexual development and mobilizes mutan.	We established a subtractive cDNA library of Aspergillus nidulans to identify differentially expressed genes during sexual development. One of the clones displayed homology to fungal alpha-1,3 glucanases (mutanase). Since alpha-1,3 glucan is considered the main reserve material accumulated during vegetative growth as a cell wall component and consumed during sexual development, we analyzed this gene in detail. The gene, mutA, is disrupted by three introns and encodes a putative protein of 48 kDa molecular mass with a signal peptide for secretion at the N terminus. The deduced protein displays amino acids 24-42% identical to mutanases of other fungi. A proposed mutan binding domain characterized in, e.g., Penicillium is not present in A. nidulans. Mutanase transcript and GFP reporter analysis in A. nidulans revealed specific induction of the gene during sexual development in Hülle cells. To study the role of mutA during sexual differentiation, we constructed a mutA deletion strain. Although degradation of mutan was affected in this strain, it was still able to form cleistothecia at a number similar to that of wildtype. These results suggest that additional carbon sources are available during sexual development. 
23399420	20130213	Int._Immunopharmacol.	D016428 D013485 	In vitro anti-allergic activity of the fungal metabolite pyridovericin.	Mast cells play a critical role during the development of an allergic response. Upon activation by an antigen and IgE, via FcεRI receptors, mast cells release histamine and other mediators that initiate and propagate immediate hypersensitivity reactions. Mast cells also secrete cytokines that regulate the immune responses. In this way, inhibitors of mast cell activity could work as promising therapeutics for allergic disorders. In the present work, we investigated the capacity of pyridovericin, a natural product isolated from the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana, to inhibit mast cell degranulation and cytokine secretion. It was found that pyridovericin strongly decreased the release of β-hexosaminidase, a marker for mast cell degranulation, when mast cells were stimulated by both FcεRI-dependent and independent pathways. In addition, pyridovericin strongly abrogated secretion of interleukin-4. Pyridovericin-mediated suppression of stimulated increase in intracellular Ca(2+) levels, a crucial signal for mounting of both degranulation and cytokine production responses, was ascribed as one of the inhibition targets of pyridovericin. Those initial studies identify pyridovericin as a potential new candidate for the development of new anti-allergic drugs. 
20170190	20100223	J._Med._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Synthesis, biological activity, and molecular modeling studies of 1H-1,2,3-triazole derivatives of carbohydrates as alpha-glucosidases inhibitors.	A class of drugs in use for treating type II diabetes mellitus (T2D), typified by the pseudotetrasaccharide acarbose, act by inhibiting the alpha-glucosidase activity present in pancreatic secretions and in the brush border of the small intestine. Herein, we report the synthesis of a series of 4-substituted 1,2,3-triazoles conjugated with sugars, including D-xylose, D-galactose, D-allose, and D-ribose. Compounds were screened for alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity using yeast maltase (MAL12) as a model enzyme. Methyl-2,3-O-isopropylidene-beta-D-ribofuranosides, such as the 4-(1-cyclohexenyl)-1,2,3-triazole derivative, were among the most active compounds, showing up to 25-fold higher inhibitory potency than the complex oligosaccharide acarbose. Docking studies on a MAL12 homology model disclosed a binding mode consistent with a transition-state-mimicking mechanism. Finally, the actual pharmacological potential of this triazole series was demonstrated by the reduction of postprandial blood glucose levels in normal rats. These compounds could represent new chemical scaffolds for developing novel drugs against T2D. 
44415	19790101	Zentralbl_Bakteriol_Naturwiss	D016428 	Cellulolytic activity of some Pythium species.	The cellulolytic activity of Pythium ultimum and P. oligandrum was investigated in vitro during the mycelium growth. It was found that under a constant temperature of 24 degrees C the cellulolytic activity was changed according to the pH of the medium. The optimum of cellulolytic activity in P. ultimum was recorded at neutral pH, whereas that in P. oligandrum in acid medium. The enzymatic production depended on the age of culture as well. 
19232489	20090224	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Enrichment of phenolics and free radical scavenging property of wheat koji prepared with two filamentous fungi.	In the present study, total phenolic content and antioxidant property of wheat (54% ethanolic extract) was drastically enhanced when fermented with two GRAS filamentous fungi, Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus awamori nakazawa. A. oryzae yielded significant (P<0.05) amounts of phenolic compounds, DPPH* (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) and ABTS*(+) [2,2'-azinobis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid)] scavenging properties on 4th day of incubation compared to A. awamori on 5th day of incubation. A linear correlation was observed between total phenolic contents and activities of three different carbohydrate hydrolyzing enzymes (alpha-amylase, beta-Glucosidase and xylanase) produced by A. oryzae. However, in case of A. awamori nakazawa, only two enzymes (xylanase and beta-glucosidase) were mainly responsible for the release of phenolics. This study demonstrated that fermented wheat grain is a better source of phytochemicals compared to non-fermented wheat. In addition, different carbohydrate cleaving enzymes are responsible for the improvement of phytochemical properties of fermented wheat. 
3981129	19850201	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 D013487 	Alterations in trehalase solubility during development in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum.	Previous studies have indicated that during development in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum, compartmentation of the isoenzymes of trehalase (alpha, alpha'-trehalose 1-D-glucohydrolase, (EC 3.2.1.28) occurs between the extracellular and intracellular environments. The compartmentation of trehalase between soluble and particulate cell fractions was examined in this work. The trehalase present in crude homogenates prepared during the first 12 h of development was completely soluble. Starting at about the pseudoplasmodial stage (i.e. the 14th hour of development), trehalase activity became associated with insoluble cellular material and this increased to a maximal value in homogenates from mature sorocarps, where 50% of the activity was insoluble. Spore cells accounted for only 2 to 3% of the trehalase associated with mature sorocarps, with the remaining 97% being localized in stalk cell material. Although trehalase recovered from spores was completely soluble, more than half of that from the stalk was recovered in the buffer-insoluble pellet fraction. 
21097664	20101125	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Proteolytic cleavage of covalently linked cell wall proteins by Candida albicans Sap9 and Sap10.	The cell wall of the human-pathogenic fungus Candida albicans is a robust but also dynamic structure which mediates adaptation to changing environmental conditions during infection. Sap9 and Sap10 are cell surface-associated proteases which function in C. albicans cell wall integrity and interaction with human epithelial cells and neutrophils. In this study, we have analyzed the enzymatic properties of Sap9 and Sap10 and investigated whether these proteases cleave proteins on the fungal cell surface. We show that Sap9 and Sap10, in contrast to other aspartic proteases, exhibit a near-neutral pH optimum of proteolytic activity and prefer the processing of peptides containing basic or dibasic residues. However, both proteases also cleaved at nonbasic sites, and not all tested peptides with dibasic residues were processed. By digesting isolated cell walls with Sap9 or Sap10, we identified the covalently linked cell wall proteins (CWPs) Cht2, Ywp1, Als2, Rhd3, Rbt5, Ecm33, and Pga4 as in vitro protease substrates. Proteolytic cleavage of the chitinase Cht2 and the glucan-cross-linking protein Pir1 by Sap9 was verified using hemagglutinin (HA) epitope-tagged versions of both proteins. Deletion of the SAP9 and SAP10 genes resulted in a reduction of cell-associated chitinase activity similar to that upon deletion of CHT2, suggesting a direct influence of Sap9 and Sap10 on Cht2 function. In contrast, cell surface changes elicited by SAP9 and SAP10 deletion had no major impact on the phagocytosis and killing of C. albicans by human macrophages. We propose that Sap9 and Sap10 influence distinct cell wall functions by proteolytic cleavage of covalently linked cell wall proteins. 
10932361	20000810	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Amylase hyper-producing haploid recombinant strains of Thermomyces lanuginosus obtained by intraspecific protoplast fusion.	Amylase hyper-producing, catabolite-repression-resistant, recombinant strains were produced by intraspecific protoplast fusion of thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus strains, using well-characterized, morphological, and 2-deoxy-D-glucose resistant markers. The fusant heterokaryons exhibited enhanced amylase activities as compared to the amylase hyper-producing parental strain (T2). Diploids derived from heterokaryons segregated to stable haploid recombinant strains. In the haploid strain (Tlh 4q), approximately 5-fold higher specific activities of alpha-amylase and glucoamylase in the culture filtrate were observed as compared to the wild-type strain (W0). 
7763357	19930101	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Purification, characterization and differential hormonal regulation of a beta-1,3-glucanase and two chitinases from chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.).	Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) cell-suspension cultures were used to isolate one beta-1,3-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.29) and two chitinases (EC 3.2.1.14). The beta-1,3-glucanase (M(r) = 36 kDa) and one of the chitinases (M(r) = 32 kDa) belong to class I hydrolases with basic isoelectric points (10.5 and 8.5, respectively) and were located intracellularly. The basic chitinase (BC) was also found in the culture medium. The second chitinase (M(r) = 28 kDa), with an acidic isoelectric point of 5.7, showed homology to N-terminal sequences of class III chitinases and represented the main protein accumulating in the culture medium. Polyclonal antibodies raised against the basic beta-1,3-glucanase (BG) and the acidic chitinase (AC) were shown to be monospecific. The anti-AC antiserum failed to recognize the BC on immune blots, confirming the structural diversity between class I and class III chitinases. Neither chitinase exhibited lysozyme activity. All hydrolases were endo in action on appropriate substrates. The BC inhibited the hyphal growth of several test fungi, whereas the AC failed to show any inhibitory activity. Expression of BG activity appeared to be regulated by auxin in the cell culture and in the intact plant. In contrast, the expression of neither chitinase was apparently influenced by auxin, indicating a differential hormonal regulation of beta-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activities in chickpea. After elicitation of cell cultures or infection of chickpea plants with Ascochyta rabiei, both system were found to have hydrolase patterns which were qualitatively and quantitatively comparable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
18378601	20080402	Ann._N._Y._Acad._Sci.	D016428 D013486 D016454 	The cellulase/hemicellulase system of the anaerobic fungus Orpinomyces PC-2 and aspects of its applied use.	Anaerobic fungi, first described in 1975 by Orpin, live in close contact with bacteria and other microorganisms in the rumen and caecum of herbivorous animals, where they digest ingested plant food. Seventeen distinct anaerobic fungi belonging to five different genera have been described. They have been found in at least 50 different herbivorous animals. Anaerobic fungi do not possess mitochondria, but instead have hydrogenosomes, which form hydrogen and carbon dioxide from pyruvate and malate during fermentation of carbohydrates. In addition, they are very oxygen- and temperature-sensitive, and their DNA has an unusually high AT content of from 72 to 87 mol%. My initial reason for studying anaerobic fungi was because they solubilize lignocellulose and produce all enzymes needed to efficiently hydrolyze cellulose and hemicelluloses. Although some of these enzymes are found free in the medium, most of them are associated with cellulosomal and polycellulosomal complexes, in which the enzymes are attached through fungal dockerins to scaffolding proteins; this is similar to what has been found for cellulosomes from anaerobic bacteria. Although cellulosomes from anaerobic fungi share many properties with cellulosomes of anaerobic cellulolytic bacteria and have comparable structures, their structures differ in their amino acid sequences. I discuss some features of the cellulosome of the anaerobic fungus Orpinomyces sp. PC-2 and some possible uses of its enzymes in industrial settings. 
12767825	20030528	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Crystal structure of a family 45 endoglucanase from Melanocarpus albomyces: mechanistic implications based on the free and cellobiose-bound forms.	Cellulose, a polysaccharide of beta-1,4-linked D-glucosyl units, is the major component of plant cell walls and one of the most abundant biopolymers in nature. Cellulases (cellobiohydrolases and endoglucanases) are enzymes that catalyse the hydrolysis of cellulose to smaller oligosaccharides, a process of paramount importance in biotechnology. The thermophilic fungus Melanocarpus albomyces produces a 20 kDa endoglucanase known as 20K-cellulase that has been found particularly useful in the textile industry. The crystal structures of free 20K-cellulase and its complex with cellobiose have been determined at 2.0 A resolution. The enzyme, classified into the glycoside hydrolase family 45, exhibits the characteristic six-stranded beta-barrel found before in Humicola insolens endoglucanase V structure. However, the active site in the 20K-cellulase shows a closing of approximately 2.5-3.5A while a mobile loop identified previously in Humicola insolens endoglucanase V and implicated in the catalytic mechanism is well-defined in 20K-cellulase. In addition, the crystal structure of the cellobiose complex shows a shift in the cellobiose position at the substrate-binding cleft. It is therefore proposed that these alterations may reflect differences in the binding mechanism and catalytic action of the enzyme. 
311688	19790301	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 	Relationship between the chemical structure and anti-tumour activity of glucans prepared from Grifora umbellata.	Glucans from Grifora umbellata and their enzyme-treated fractions have been tested for antitumour activity against subcutaneously implanted Sarcoma 180 (solid type). The results indicate that the basic common unit of the glucans is of primary importance for the antitumour activity, which is also influenced by the type of sugar linkage, length of branch, branching frequency, molecular size, and molecular conformation. 
7575482	19951001	Biochem._J.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Cellobiohydrolase B, a second exo-cellobiohydrolase from the cellulolytic bacterium Cellulomonas fimi.	The gene cbhB from the cellulolytic bacterium Cellulomonas fimi encodes a polypeptide of 1090 amino acids. Cellobiohydrolase B (CbhB) is 1037 amino acids long, with a calculated molecular mass of 109765 Da. The enzyme comprises five domains: an N-terminal catalytic domain of 643 amino acids, three fibronectin type III repeats of 97 amino acids each, and a C-terminal cellulose-binding domain of 104 amino acids. The catalytic domain belongs to family 48 of glycosyl hydrolases. CbhB has a very low activity on CM-cellulose. Viscometric analysis of CM-cellulose hydrolysis indicates that the enzyme is an exoglucanase. Cellobiose is the major product of hydrolysis of cellulose. In common with two other exoglycanases from C. fimi, CbhB has low but detectable endoglucanase activity. CbhB is the second exo-cellobiohydrolase found in C. fimi. Therefore, the cellulase system of C. fimi resembles those of fungi in comprising multiple endoglucanases and cellobiohydrolases. 
20538957	20100612	Am._J._Respir._Crit._Care_Med.	D016428 D052061 	Fungal exposure modulates the effect of polymorphisms of chitinases on emergency department visits and hospitalizations.	Chitinases are enzymes that cleave chitin, which is present in fungal cells. Two types of human chitinases, chitotriosidase and acidic mammalian chitinase, and the chitinase-like protein, YKL-40, seem to play an important role in asthma. We hypothesized that exposure to environmental fungi may modulate the effect of chitinases in individuals with asthma. To explore whether interactions between high fungal exposure and common genetic variants in the two chitinases in humans, CHIT1 and CHIA, and the chitinase 3-like 1 gene, CHI3L1, are associated with severe asthma exacerbations and other asthma-related outcomes. Forty-eight single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in CHIT1, CHIA, and CHI3L1 and one CHIT1 duplication were genotyped in 395 subjects and their parents as part of the Childhood Asthma Management Program. Household levels of mold (an index of fungal exposure) were determined on house dust samples. We conducted family-based association tests with gene-environment interactions. Our outcome was severe exacerbation, defined as emergency department visits and hospitalizations from asthma over a 4-year period, and our secondary outcomes included indices of lung function and allergy-related phenotypes. Of the 395 subjects who had mold levels at randomization, 24% (95 subjects) had levels that were greater than 25,000 units per gram of house dust (high mold exposure). High mold exposure significantly modified the relation between three SNPs in CHIT1 (rs2486953, rs4950936, and rs1417149) and severe exacerbations (P for interaction 0.0010 for rs2486953, 0.0008 for rs4950936, and 0.0005 for rs1417149). High mold exposure did not significantly modify the relationship between any of the other variants and outcomes. Environmental exposure to fungi, modifies the effect of CHIT1 SNPs on severe asthma exacerbations. 
18256490	20080208	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Usefulness of heterologous promoters in the Pseudozyma flocculosa gene expression system.	The basidiomycetous fungus Pseudozyma flocculosa represents a promising new host for the expression of complex recombinant proteins. Two novel heterologous promoter sequences, the Ustilago maydis glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD) and Pseudozyma tsukubaensis alpha-glucosidase promoters, were tested for their ability to provide expression in P. flocculosa. In liquid medium, these two promoters produced lower levels of intracellular green fluorescent protein (GFP) as compared to the U. maydis hsp70 promoter. However, GPD and alpha-glucosidase sequences behaved as constitutive promoters whereas the hsp70 promoter appeared to be morphology-dependent. When using the hsp70 promoter, the expression of GFP increased proportionally to the concentration of hygromycin in the culture medium, indicating possible induction of the promoter by the antibiotic. Optimal solid-state culture conditions were designed for high throughput screening of hygromycin-resistant transformants with the hsp70 promoter in P. flocculosa. 
16233459	20051020	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 	Family 3 beta-glucosidase from cellulose-degrading culture of the white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium is a glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase.	The substrate specificity of an extracellular beta-glucosidase (BGL) from cellulose-degrading culture of the white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium was investigated, using a variety of compounds with beta-glucosidic linkages. Amino acid sequencing data for the purified BGL showed that the enzyme is identical to the glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 3 BGL of the same fungus previously reported [Li, B. and Renganathan, V, Appl. Environ. Microbiol., 64, 2748-2754 (1998)]. The BGL can hydrolyze both cellobiose and cellobionolactone, but cellobionolactone was hydrolyzed very much more slowly than cellobiose. Moreover, cellobionolactone inhibited cellobiose hydrolysis by the BGL, suggesting that this enzyme cannot cooperate with cellobiose dehydrogenase (CDH) in cellulose degradation by P. chrysosporium. In addition to cellobiose, BGL utilized various glucosyl-beta-glucosides, such as sophorose, laminaribiose and gentiobiose, as substrates. Among the four substrates, laminaribiose (beta-1,3-glucosidic linkage) was hydrolyzed most effectively. Moreover, the hydrolytic rate of laminarioligosaccharides increased proportionally to the degree of polymerization (DP), and the activity of BGL even towards laminarin with an average DP of 25 was similar to that towards laminaripentaose (DP 5). Therefore, we conclude that the extracellular BGL from P. chrysosporium is primarily a glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.58), which might play a role on fungal cell wall metabolism, rather than a beta-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21), which might be involved in the hydrolysis of beta-1,4-glucosidic compounds during cellulose degradation. 
8787393	19960601	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Analysis of heterologous protein production in defined recombinant Aspergillus awamori strains.	A study was carried out to obtain more insight into the parameters that determine the secretion of heterologous proteins from filamentous fungi. A strategy was chosen in which the mRNA levels and protein levels of a number of heterologous genes of different origins were compared. All genes were under control of the Aspergillus awamori 1,4-beta-endoxylanase A (exlA) expression signals and were integrated in a single copy at the A. awamori pyrG locus. A Northern (RNA) analysis showed that large differences occurred in the steady-state mRNA levels obtained with the various genes; those levels varied from high values for genes of fungal origin (A. awamori 1,4-beta-endoxylanase A, Aspergillus niger glucoamylase, and Thermomyces lanuginosa lipase) to low values for genes of nonfungal origin (human interleukin 6 and Cyamopsis tetragonoloba [guar] alpha-galactosidase). With the C. tetragonoloba alpha-galactosidase wild-type gene full-length mRNA was even undetectable. Surprisingly, small amounts of full-length mRNA could be detected when a C. tetragonoloba alpha-galactosidase gene with an optimized Saccharomyces cerevisiae codon preference was expressed. In all cases except human interleukin 6, the protein levels corresponded to the amounts expected on basis of the mRNA levels. For human interleukin 6, very low protein levels were observed, whereas relatively high steady-state mRNA levels were obtained. Our data suggest that intracellular protein degradation is the most likely explanation for the low levels of secreted human interleukin 6. 
21277188	20110201	Waste_Manag	D016428 D013485 	Changes in fungal population of fly ash and vinasse mixture during vermicomposting by Eudrilus eugeniae and Eisenia fetida: documentation of cellulase isozymes in vermicompost.	Fly ash (FA) and vinasse (VN), two industrial wastes, are generated in huge amounts and cause serious hazards to the environment. In this experiment, different proportions of these two wastes were used as food for two epigeic earthworms (Eisenia fetida and Eudrilus eugeniae) to standardize the recycling technique of these two wastes and to study their effect on fungal especially cellulolytic fungal population, cellulase activity and their isozyme pattern, chitin content and microbial biomass of waste mixture during vermicomposting. Increasing VN proportion from 25% to 50% or even higher, counts of both fungi and cellulolytic fungi in waste mixtures were significantly (P ≤ 0.05) increased during vermicomposting. Higher cellulase activity in treatments having 50% or more vinasse might be attributed to the significantly (P ≤ 0.05) higher concentration of group I isozyme while concentrations of other isozymes (group II and III) of cellulase were statistically at par. Higher chitin content in vinasse-enriched treatments suggested that fungal biomass and fungi-to-microbial biomass ratio in these treatments were also increased due to vermicomposting. Results revealed that Eudrilus eugeniae and Eisenia fetida had comparable effect on FA and VN mixture during vermicomposting. Periodical analysis of above-mentioned biochemical and microbial properties and nutrient content of final vermicompost samples indicated that equal proportion (1:1, w/w) of FA and VN is probably the optimum composition to obtain best quality vermicompost. 
12674634	20030405	Sheng_Wu_Gong_Cheng_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Construction of recipient strain of expression-secretion system in filamentous fungi].	Glucoamylase overproducing A. niger T21 was mutated by UV mutagensis. An extracellular acid protease-deficient mutant, A. niger T21-201, which produced only 0.76% extracellular acid protease activity of the parent strain, was screened by casein-degradating plate and determination of protease activity. Moreover, the growth properties and the ability to secrete glucoamylase of A. niger T21-201 are identical to these of starting strain T21. The comparison of expression-secretion levels of heterologous gene in A. niger T21-201 and T21 was carried out with bacterial vhb as reporter, the level of expression-secretion of VHb in A. niger T21-201 was 6-7 times higher than that in T21, but the transcriptional levels of vhb gene in both strains were similar revealed by Northern blot. Therefore, it was demonstrated that the deficiency of acid protease of recipient T21-201 has significant effect on the protection of heterologous protein. 
22799212	20120718	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptome analysis of Termitomyces albuminosus reveals the biodegradation of lignocellulose.	To study whether Termitomyces albuminosus can degrade lignocelluloses and to understand the symbiotic relationship between termite mushroom and fungus-growing termite. cDNA library of T. albuminosus was sequenced by the Roche 454 GS FLX Titanium platform, and the diverse enzymes relevant to degradation of cellulose and lignin of symbiotic fungus T. albuminosus were analyzed. Eighth sequencing run resulted in a total of 82386 reads (express sequence tags, EST). After removing the vector and primer sequences, the remained 54410 reads were assembled into 3301 contigs and 3193 singletons. Comparing sequence similarity with known proteins, these sequences, representing approximately 2681 unique genes, were successfully annotated using BLAST searches (E-value < or = 1e(-10)) against the Nr, SwissProt and CDD databases. The T. albuminosus transcripts included 33 enzymes putatively involved in cellulose and hemicelluloses biodegradation. 5 enzymes could hydrolyze cellulose and others had catalytic activities for degradation of hemicelluloses, starch and glycogen and chitin. Moreover, four genes encoding laccases and a single aryl-alcohol oxidase which could degrade lignin were also identified. These results revealed symbiosis fungus T. albuminosus had many laccases and possibly decomposed phenolic compounds from plant litter. Data presented in this study indicated that T. albuminosus had the ability to degrade lignin, which made cellulose more easily degraded by the cellulase produced by fungus-growing termite. 
3409811	19880819	Dtsch._Med._Wochenschr.	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Baking ingredients as a contributory cause of baker's asthma].	140 bakers with occupation-related asthma symptoms and/or rhinoconjunctivitis were tested for specific IgE antibodies against various enzyme-containing baking components. 5-24% of subjects were sensitive to several carbohydrate-splitting enzymes obtained from mould fungi (amyloglucosidase, hemicellulase and alpha-amylase), as well as/or against soya flour. But allergies against the proteolytic enzymes papain and B. subtilis protease were rare (about 1%). These results indicate that various baking components, especially mould enzymes, play a not insignificant role in the causation of baker's asthma. 
401863	19770101	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 	Solid media containing carboxymethylcellulose to detect CX cellulose activity of micro-organisms.	Solid media containing carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) were developed to detect CX cellulose-producing micro-organisms. Hydrolysis of CMC was seen as a clear zone around colonies after flooding plates with 1% aqueous hexadecyltrimethyl-ammonium bromide. Tests with ten bacterial and four fungal species showed that the degree of substitution (DS) of the CMC affects both growth and enzyme production. Most of the organisms produced more CX cellulase on CMC with a DS of 0-9, but CMC with a DS of 0-4 was better for one fungus. A qualitative measure of cellulase production may be obtained by calculating the ratio of zone size to colony diameter. Solid media containing CMC provided a more rapid assay of CX cellulose production than a medium containing native cellulose. 
22500897	20120417	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Hydrolytic potential of Trichoderma sp. strains evaluated by microplate-based screening followed by switchgrass saccharification.	Bioconversion of lignocellulosic biomass to fuel requires a hydrolysis step to obtain fermentable sugars, generally accomplished by fungal enzymes. Large-scale screening of different microbial strains would provide optimal enzyme cocktails for any target feedstock. The aim of this study was to screen a large collection of Trichoderma sp. strains for the hydrolytic potential towards switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.). Strains were cultivated in a small-scale system and assayed in micro-plates for xylanase and cellulase activities. The population distributions of these traits are reported after growth on switchgrass in comparison with cellulose. The distribution profiles suggest that the growth on switchgrass strongly promotes xylanase production. The IK4 strain displayed the highest xylanase activity after growth on switchgrass (133U/mL). Enzymes (10FPU/g substrate) from IK4 were compared with those from 2 cellulolytic Trichoderma strains and a commercial enzyme in saccharification time-course experiments on untreated and pretreated switchgrass and on an artificial substrate. Samples were analysed by DNS assay and by an oxygraphic method for sugar equivalent or glucose concentration. On the untreated substrate, IK4 enzymes even outperformed a 5-fold load of commercial enzyme, suggesting that xylanase or accessory enzymes are a limiting factor on this type of recalcitrant substrate. On the other substrates, IK4 preparations showed intermediate behaviour if compared with the commercial enzyme at 10FPU/g substrate and at 5-fold load. IK4 also nearly halved the time to release 50% of the hydrolysable sugar equivalents (T(50%)), with respect to the other preparations at the same enzymatic load. DNS assay and oxygraphic method gave highly correlated results for the 3 saccharified substrates. The study suggests that accessory enzymes like xylanase play a key role in improving the performance of cellulase preparations on herbaceous lignocellulosic feedstocks like switchgrass. 
3785193	19860601	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Differential expressions of essential and nonessential alpha-tubulin genes in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	The fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe has two alpha-tubulin genes and one beta-tubulin gene. Gene disruption experiments showed that the alpha 1-tubulin gene (NDA2) is essential whereas the alpha 2 gene is dispensable. The alpha 2-disrupted cells missing alpha 2 transcript and alpha 2 polypeptide could grow and sporulate normally. The alpha 2 gene, however, was expressed in the wild type and the alpha 1 mutant. Alpha 2-Tubulin was distinguished as an electrophoretic band and was assembled into microtubules. The alpha 2-disrupted cells had an increased sensitivity to an antimicrotubule drug thiabendazole, and the alpha 1(cold-sensitive [cs]) alpha 2 (disrupted) cells became not only cs but also temperature sensitive. Northern blot experiments indicated that alpha 2 transcription was minor and constitutive whereas alpha 1 transcription was major and modulated, depending on the gene copy number of the alpha 2 gene. The amounts of alpha 1 and alpha 2 polypeptides estimated by beta-galactosidase activities of the lacZ-fused genes integrated on the chromosome and by intensities of the electrophoretic bands in crude tubulin fractions, however, were comparable, indicating that alpha 2 tubulin is not a minor subtype. We assume that the cells of Schizosaccharomyces pombe have no excess tubulin pool. alpha 1 mutants would then be blocked in the cell cycle because only half the amount of functional alpha-tubulin required for growth can be produced by the alpha 2 gene. On the other hand, the alpha 2-disrupted cells became viable because the synthesis of alpha 1 tubulin was increased by transcriptional or translational modulation or both. The real cause for essential alpha 1 and dispensable alpha 2 genes seems to be in their regulatory sequences instead of the coding sequences. 
20222552	20100313	Commun._Agric._Appl._Biol._Sci.	D016428 D013485 	In planta xylanase activity and pathogenicity on wheat-Mycosphaerella graminicola pathosystem.	A total of twenty four French strains and two reference strains IPO323 and IPO94269 of the hemibiotrophic fungus Mycosphoerella graminicola were investigated in planta to examine the association of the cell-wall degrading enzyme endo-beta-1,4-xylanase (EC 3.2.1.8) with pathogenicity. The French strains were selected from a collection of 363 strains previously genotyped using microsatellites, actine and beta-tubutine markers. Disease level assessments as well as enzyme quantifications were carried out at 20 days post inoculation from the third leaves of inoculated whole plants of the susceptible wheat cv. Scorpion. Great variability of both pathogenicity levels and endo-beta-1,4-xylanase activity patterns was obtained among strains. Only 15 out of the 26 assessed strains including the reference strain IPO323 were able to induce lesions bearing pycnidia. The percentages of diseased leaf areas bearing pycnidia ranged from 6.2% to 77%, while amounts of endo-beta-1,4-xylanase activity ranged from 0 to 399.15 mU/microg of total proteins. A Pearson correlation test revealed very high linkage between endo-beta-1,4-xylanase activity level and lesions bearing pycnidia production within strains (r = 0.94). Additional cytological and enzymatic investigations on two strains exhibiting different pathogenicity levels highlighted that successful disease induction by M. graminicola is not explained by either spore germination or direct and stomatal penetration rates of the host, but by the ability of the fungus to colonize the mesophyll and to secrete the endo-beta-1,4-xylanase activity during necrotrophic phase. This study strongly suggests the importance of both mesophyll colonisation and endo-beta-1,4-xylanase activity during the infection process of M. graminicola. 
22210154	20120103	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of the chitinolytic machinery of Enterococcus faecalis V583 and high-resolution structure of its oxidative CBM33 enzyme.	Little information exists for the ability of enterococci to utilize chitin as a carbon source. We show that Enterococcus faecalis V583 can grow on chitin, and we describe two proteins, a family 18 chitinase (ef0361; EfChi18A) and a family 33 CBM (carbohydrate binding module) (ef0362; EfCBM33A) that catalyze chitin conversion in vitro. Various types of enzyme activity assays showed that EfChi18A has functional properties characteristic of an endochitinase. EfCBM33A belongs to a recently discovered family of enzymes that cleave glycosidic bonds via an oxidative mechanism and that act synergistically with classical hydrolytic enzymes (i.e., chitinases). The structure and function of this protein were probed in detail. An ultra-high-resolution crystal structure of EfCBM33A revealed details of a conserved binding surface that is optimized to interact with chitin and contains the catalytic center. Chromatography and mass spectrometry analyses of product formation showed that EfCBM33A cleaves chitin via the oxidative mechanism previously described for CBP21 from Serratia marcescens. Metal-depletion studies showed that EfCBM33A is a copper enzyme. In the presence of an external electron donor, EfCBM33A boosted the activity of EfChi18A, and combining the two enzymes led to rapid and complete conversion of β-chitin to chitobiose. This study provides insight into the structure and function of the CBM33 family of enzymes, which, together with their fungal counterpart called GH61, currently receive considerable attention in the biomass processing field. 
10944353	20000816	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray study of beta-xylosidase from Trichoderma reesei.	An extracellular multifunctional beta-xylosidase was purified from a culture of the fungus Trichoderma reesei. The active 95 +/- 5 kDa enzyme has been crystallized from sodium acetate buffer using PEG as a precipitant. The crystals belong to the orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 67.75, b = 98.54, c = 227.25 A, and diffract beyond 2.7 A resolution. X-ray data were collected from frozen crystals on a synchrotron source. 
16247673	20051026	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Use of xylanase and arabinofuranosidase for arabinose removal from unbleached kraft pulp.	Preparations of arabinofuranosidase and xylanase, respectively from Aureobasidium pullulans and Trichoderma longibrachiatum, were used to remove selectively xylose and arabinose from kraft pulp. The equilibrium moisture content of pulps treated with both enzymes, at varying relative humidities, revealed a consistently lower percent moisture content at all humidity set points. Shorter fiber lengths indicated some deterioration when pulp was exposed to high concentrations of both enzymes. 
24128404	20131017	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Direct and efficient xylitol production from xylan by Saccharomyces cerevisiae through transcriptional level and fermentation processing optimizations.	In this study, four engineered Saccharomyces cerevisiae carrying xylanase, β-xylosidase and xylose reductase genes by different transcriptional regulations were constructed to directly convert xylan to xylitol. According to the results, the high-copy number plasmid required a rigid selection for promoter characteristics, on the contrast, the selection of promoters could be more flexible for low-copy number plasmid. For cell growth and xylitol production, glucose and galactose were found more efficient than other sugars. The semi-aerobic condition and feeding of co-substrates were taken to improve the yield of xylitol. It was found that the strain containing high-copy number plasmid had the highest xylitol yield, but it was sensitive to the change of fermentation. However, the strain carrying low-copy number plasmid was more adaptable to different processes. By optimization of the transcriptional regulation and fermentation processes, the xylitol concentration could be increased of 1.7 folds and the yield was 0.71 g xylitol/g xylan. 
8391537	19930701	J._Cell_Biol.	D016428 D013487 	Guanosine diphosphatase is required for protein and sphingolipid glycosylation in the Golgi lumen of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Current models for nucleotide sugar use in the Golgi apparatus predict a critical role for the lumenal nucleoside diphosphatase. After transfer of sugars to endogenous macromolecular acceptors, the enzyme converts nucleoside diphosphates to nucleoside monophosphates which in turn exit the Golgi lumen in a coupled antiporter reaction, allowing entry of additional nucleotide sugar from the cytosol. To test this model, we cloned the gene for the S. cerevisiae guanosine diphosphatase and constructed a null mutation. This mutation should reduce the concentrations of GDP-mannose and GMP and increase the concentration of GDP in the Golgi lumen. The alterations should in turn decrease mannosylation of proteins and lipids in this compartment. In fact, we found a partial block in O- and N-glycosylation of proteins such as chitinase and carboxypeptidase Y and underglycosylation of invertase. In addition, mannosylinositolphosphorylceramide levels were drastically reduced. 
21829479	20110811	PLoS_ONE	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Infestation of transgenic powdery mildew-resistant wheat by naturally occurring insect herbivores under different environmental conditions.	A concern associated with the growing of genetically modified (GM) crops is that they could adversely affect non-target organisms. We assessed the impact of several transgenic powdery mildew-resistant spring wheat lines on insect herbivores. The GM lines carried either the Pm3b gene from hexaploid wheat, which confers race-specific resistance to powdery mildew, or the less specific anti-fungal barley seed chitinase and β-1,3-glucanase. In addition to the non-transformed control lines, several conventional spring wheat varieties and barley and triticale were included for comparison. During two consecutive growing seasons, powdery mildew infection and the abundance of and damage by naturally occurring herbivores were estimated under semi-field conditions in a convertible glasshouse and in the field. Mildew was reduced on the Pm3b-transgenic lines but not on the chitinase/glucanase-expressing lines. Abundance of aphids was negatively correlated with powdery mildew in the convertible glasshouse, with Pm3b wheat plants hosting significantly more aphids than their mildew-susceptible controls. In contrast, aphid densities did not differ between GM plants and their non-transformed controls in the field, probably because of low mildew and aphid pressure at this location. Likewise, the GM wheat lines did not affect the abundance of or damage by the herbivores Oulema melanopus (L.) and Chlorops pumilionis Bjerk. Although a previous study has revealed that some of the GM wheat lines show pleiotropic effects under field conditions, their effect on herbivorous insects appears to be low. 
1955864	19910701	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 	Description of two anaerobic fungal strains from the bovine rumen and influence of diet on the fungal population in vivo.	Neocallimastix sp. NC71 and Piromyces sp. PC12 isolated from the calf remen grew optimally at 39 degrees C and pH 6.5-6.7, utilized a wide range of mono-, oligo- and polysaccharides and exhibited CMCase, Avicelase, cellobiase, amylase and xylanase activities. The end-products of wheat straw fermentation by both strains were acetate, formate, ethanol and lactate. The number of Neocallimastix sp. zoospores in the rumen of cows in the first 3 h after feeding with hay-silage-concentrate diets varied from 7 x 10(3) to 5.4 x 10(5) ml-1; the number of uniflagellate zoospores varied from 10(4) to 10(5) ml-1. Fungal zoosporgenesis and colonization of plant substrates in the rumen were induced by feed intake and were favoured by increased levels of crude fibre in the diet. 
17874191	20070918	Biodegradation	D016428 	Evaluation of thermophilic fungal consortium for paddy straw composting.	Out of 10 thermophilic fungi isolated from wheat straw, farm yard manure, and soil, only three showed highest cellobiase, carboxymethyl cellulase, xylanase, and FPase activities. They were identified as Aspergillus nidulans (Th(4)), Scytalidium thermophilum (Th(5)), and Humicola sp. (Th(10)). A fungal consortium of these three fungi was used to compost a mixture (1:1) of silica rich paddy straw and lignin rich soybean trash. The composting of paddy straw for 3 months, during summer period in North India, resulted in a product with C:N ratio 9.5:1, available phosphorus 0.042% and fungal biomass 6.512 mg of N-acetyl glucosamine/100 mg of compost. However, a C:N ratio of 10.2:1 and highest humus content of 3.3% was achieved with 1:1 mixture of paddy straw and soybean trash. The fungal consortium was effective in converting high silica paddy straw into nutritionally rich compost thereby leading to economical and environment friendly disposal of this crop residue. 
8737575	19960501	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Arabinoxylan-degrading enzyme system of the fungus Aspergillus awamori: purification and properties of an alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase.	An alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase produced by the fungus Aspergillus awamori had a molecular mass of approximately 64 kDa on sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and was optimally active at pH 4.6 and 50 degrees C. The enzyme, which chromatographed as a single component on SDS-PAGE, appeared to consist of two isoenzymes of pI 3.6 and 3.2. Acting in isolation, the alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase had only a very limited capacity to release L-arabinose (less than 11%) directly from arabinoxylans that had been extracted from a number of plant cell wall preparations using 18% alkali, but a much higher proportion of the L-arabinose (46%) was released from a wheat straw arabinoxylan that had been isolated by steam treatment. There was a marked synergistic effect between the alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase and an endo-(1 --> 4)-beta-D-xylanase produced by A. awamori in both the rate and extent of the release of L-arabinose from both oat straw and wheat straw arabinoxylans, suggesting that L-arabinose-substituted oligosaccharides generated by the endoxylanase action were better substrates for enzyme action. A novel property of the alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase was its capacity to release a substantial proportion (42%) of feruloyl L-arabinose from intact wheat straw arabinoxylan. The concerted action of the alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase and endoxylanase released 71% of the feruloyl L-arabinose and 69% of the p-coumaroyl L-arabinose substituents from wheat straw arabinoxylan. 
11318101	20010425	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Characterization of the amyR gene encoding a transcriptional activator for the amylase genes in Aspergillus nidulans.	The Aspergillus nidulans amyR gene and its cDNA were cloned and sequenced. The genomic gene comprised 2,092 bp, interrupted by two short introns, and encoded a cys-6 zinc transcriptional activator (AMYR) of 662 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 72,862 Da. Disruption of the amyR gene caused defects in the utilization of maltose and starch and abolished expression of the taaG2 gene encoding A. oryzae Taka-amylase A, which is inducibly and abundantly expressed in the wild-type A. nidulans. Expression of the amyR gene was under the control of the carbon catabolite repressor, CREA. The growth defect of the malA1 mutant on maltose was complemented by the amyR gene; and the amyR gene derived from the mutant possessed a single mutation, from A to T, at position 1,483, resulting in a substitution of His478 to Leu. These results indicate that the amyR gene is identical to the genetically defined malA gene. AMYR possessed five domains (Zn and MH1-MH4) homologous to Mal63p, a transcriptional activator for the genes involved in maltose utilization in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The His478 to Leu substitution lay within the MH3 domain, corresponding to the negative regulatory domain of Mal63p which relieves the inhibitory effect on the activation function in response to maltose. 
23053096	20121012	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Potential uses of spent mushroom substrate and its associated lignocellulosic enzymes.	Mushroom industries generate a virtually in-exhaustible supply of a co-product called spent mushroom substrate (SMS). This is the unutilised substrate and the mushroom mycelium left after harvesting of mushrooms. As the mushroom industry is steadily growing, the volume of SMS generated annually is increasing. In recent years, the mushroom industry has faced challenges in storing and disposing the SMS. The obvious solution is to explore new applications of SMS. There has been considerable discussion recently about the potentials of using SMS for production of value-added products. One of them is production of lignocellulosic enzymes such as laccase, xylanase, lignin peroxidase, cellulase and hemicellulase. This paper reviews scientific research and practical applications of SMS as a readily available and cheap source of enzymes for bioremediation, animal feed and energy feedstock. 
23248847	20121220	Mol._Gen._Mikrobiol._Virusol.	D016428 D013485 	High-level production of a cold-active B-mannanase from Bacillus subtilis BS5 and its molecular cloning and expression.	Mannanases can be useful in the food, feed, pulp and paper industries. In this research a Bacillus subtilis strain (named Bs5) which produced high-level beta-mannanase was isolated. Maximum level of beta-mannanase (1231.41 U/ml) was reached when Bacillus subtilis Bs5 was grown on konjac powder as the carbon source for nine hours at 32 degrees C. The beta-mannanase was a typical cold-active enzyme and its optimal temperature of 35 degrees C was the lowest among those of the known mannanases from bacteria. In addition, the optimal pH was 5.0 and much wide pH range from 3.0-8.0 was also observed in the beta-mannanase. These properties make the beta-mannanase more attractive for biotechnological applications. The DNA sequence coding the beta-mannanase was cloned and the open reading frame consisted of 1089 bp encoding 362 amino acids. A phylogenetic tree of the beta-mannanase based on the similarity of amino acid sequences revealed that the beta-mannanase formed a cluster with the beta-mannanases of Bacillus subtilis, which was separated from the mannanases of fungi and other bacteria. The beta-mannanase gene could be expressed in Escherichia coli and the recombinant beta-mannanase was characterized by Western blot. This study provided a new source of carbohydrate hydrolysis enzyme with novel characteristics from Bacillus subtilis. 
21898652	20110908	Protein_Sci.	D016428 D052061 D013485 D013486 	A structural study of Hypocrea jecorina Cel5A.	Interest in generating lignocellulosic biofuels through enzymatic hydrolysis continues to rise as nonrenewable fossil fuels are depleted. The high cost of producing cellulases, hydrolytic enzymes that cleave cellulose into fermentable sugars, currently hinders economically viable biofuel production. Here, we report the crystal structure of a prevalent endoglucanase in the biofuels industry, Cel5A from the filamentous fungus Hypocrea jecorina. The structure reveals a general fold resembling that of the closest homolog with a high-resolution structure, Cel5A from Thermoascus aurantiacus. Consistent with previously described endoglucanase structures, the H. jecorina Cel5A active site contains a primarily hydrophobic substrate binding groove and a series of hydrogen bond networks surrounding two catalytic glutamates. The reported structure, however, demonstrates stark differences between side-chain identity, loop regions, and the number of disulfides. Such structural information may aid efforts to improve the stability of this protein for industrial use while maintaining enzymatic activity through revealing nonessential and immutable regions. 
1889394	19910601	Electrophoresis	D016428 D013485 	A technique for detecting antifungal activity of proteins separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.	A technique was developed for the detection of antifungal activity of proteins after discontinuous polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under native conditions. The antifungal activity is detected as growth inhibition zones in a homogeneous fungal lawn, grown in an agar layer spread on top of the polyacrylamide gel. The position of proteins with antifungal activity can be determined on a diffusion blot prepared from the same gel. The technique is illustrated for three antifungal plant proteins, i.e. alpha-purothionin, Urtica dioica agglutinin, and tobacco chitinase. 
6164257	19800101	Acta_Microbiol._Pol.	D016428 	Cellulolytic activities of fungi destroying ancient books.	Fungi isolated from destroyed ancient books were found to produce active cellulolytic enzymes on various cellulosic substrates. The activity of enzymes from different fungi depended on time of growth and temperature and was independent of growth rate. The isolated fungi degraded cellulose faster at 15 degrees C than at 28 degrees C. The different cellulolytic activities of the fungi may reflect their varied roles in the decomposition of ancient paper. 
1809319	19911201	BioTechniques	D016428 D013485 	Culture of eukaryotic cells with macro-reticulate buffers: fermentation of cellulolytic fungi.	Fermentation of fungi for large-scale production of extracellular cellulolytic enzymes requires a strict control of pH. At the lab scale, where bioreactors are not available, a culture in the exponential growth phase requires frequent manual pH adjustments. When fungi are grown in the presence of macroreticulate buffers, the culture is stable and does not require any pH control for as long as two weeks. These insoluble buffers are polyacrylamide beads (e.g., 10%T, 8%C) containing acrylamido weak acids and bases in such ratios as to unequivocally define a single pH value along the pH sale. At such pH, the macroreticulate buffers possess a strong buffering power (up to 100 milliequivalent liter-1 pH-1). In the present example, a Trichoderma sp. strain is grown in the presence of 12% beads (v/v) with an isoelectric point of 5.6, containing 100 mM of a pK 6.2 weak acrylamido base and 89 mM of a pK 4.6 weak acrylamido acid. Enzyme production (exoglucanase, endoglucanase, xylanase, beta-glucosidase) is as good as (and often better than) the control in which the pH is adjusted manually 2-3 times/day. 
11042875	20001024	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Purification and characteristic of endo-(1--4)-beta-xylanase from Geotrichum candidum 3C].	A method of purification of endo-(1-->4)-beta-xylanase (endoxylanase; EC 3.2.1.8) from the culture liquid of Geotrichum candidum 3C, grown for three days, is described. The enzyme purified 23-fold had a specific activity of 32.6 U per mg protein (yield, 14.4%). Endoxylanase was shown to be homogeneous by SDS-PAGE (molecular weight, 60 to 67 kDa). With carboxymethyl xylan as substrate, the optimum activity (determined viscosimetrically) was recorded at pH 4.0 (pI 3.4). The enzyme retained stability at pH 3.0-4.5 and 30-45 degrees C for 1 h. With xylan from beach wood, the hydrolytic activity of the enzyme (ability to saccharify the substrate) was maximum at 50 degrees C. In 72 h of exposure to 0.2 mg/ml endoxylanase, the extent of saccharification of xylans from birch wood, rye grain, and wheat straw amounted to 10, 12, and 7.7%, respectively. At 0.4 mg/ml, the extent of saccharification of birch wood xylan was as high as 20%. In the case of birch wood xylan, the initial hydrolysis products were xylooligosaccharides with degrees of polymerization in excess of four; the end products were represented by xylobiose, xylotriose, xylose, and acid xylooligosaccharides. 
9687432	19980804	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression and secretion of defined cutinase variants by Aspergillus awamori.	Several cutinase variants derived by molecular modelling and site-directed mutagenesis of a cutinase gene from Fusarium solani pisi are poorly secreted by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The majority of these variants are successfully produced by the filamentous fungus Aspergillus awamori. However, the L51S and T179Y mutations caused reductions in the levels of extracellular production of two cutinase variants by A. awamori. Metabolic labelling studies were performed to analyze the bottleneck in enzyme production by the fungus in detail. These studies showed that because of the single L51S substitution, rapid extracellular degradation of cutinase occurred. The T179Y substitution did not result in enhanced sensitivity towards extracellular proteases. Presumably, the delay in the extracellular accumulation of this cutinase variant is caused by the enhanced hydrophobicity of the molecule. Overexpression of the A. awamori gene encoding the chaperone BiP in the cutinase-producing A. awamori strains had no significant effect on the secretion efficiency of the cutinases. A cutinase variant with the amino acid changes G28A, A85F, V184I, A185L, and L189F that was known to aggregate in the endoplasmic reticulum of S. cerevisiae, resulting in low extracellular protein levels, was successfully produced by A. awamori. An initial bottleneck in secretion occurred before or during translocation into the endoplasmic reticulum but was rapidly overcome by the fungus. 
8223613	19931015	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Disruption of the Kluyveromyces lactis GGS1 gene causes inability to grow on glucose and fructose and is suppressed by mutations that reduce sugar uptake.	In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae the GGS1 gene is essential for growth on glucose or other readily fermentable sugars. GGS1 is the same gene as TPS1 which was identified as encoding a subunit of the trehalose-6-phosphate synthase/phosphatase complex and it is allelic to the fdp1, byp1, glc6 and cif1 mutations. Its precise function in the regulation of sugar catabolism is unknown. We have cloned the GGS1 homologue from the distantly related yeast Kluyveromyces lactis. The KlGGS1 gene is 74% and 79% identical at the nucleotide and amino acid sequence level, respectively, to the S. cerevisiae counterpart. We also compared the sequence with the partly homologous products of the S. cerevisiae genes TPS2 and TSL1 which code for the larger subunits of the trehalose synthase complex and with a TSL1 homologue, TPS3, of unknown function. Multiple alignment of these sequences revealed several particularly well conserved elements. Disruption of GGS1 in K. lactis caused the same pleiotropic phenotype as in S. cerevisiae, i.e. inability to grow on glucose or fructose and strongly reduced trehalose content. We have also studied short-term glucose-induced regulatory effects related to cAMP and cAMP-dependent protein kinase, i.e. the cAMP signal, trehalase activation, trehalose mobilization and inactivation of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase. These effects occur very rapidly in S. cerevisiae and are absent in the Scggs1 mutant. In K. lactis all these effects were much slower and largely unaffected by the Klggs1 mutation. On the other hand, glucose strongly induced pyruvate decarboxylase and activated the potassium transport system in K. lactis and both effects were absent in the Klggs1 mutant. Addition of glucose to galactose-grown cells of the Klggs1 mutant caused, as in S. cerevisiae, intracellular accumulation of free glucose and of sugar phosphates and a rapid drop of the ATP and inorganic phosphate levels. Glucose transport kinetics were the same for the wild type and the Klggs1 mutant in both derepressed cells and in cells incubated with glucose. We have isolated phenotypic revertants of the Klggs1 mutant for growth on fructose. The suppressors that we characterized had, to different extents, diminished glucose uptake in derepressed cells but cells incubated in glucose showed very different characteristics. The suppressor mutations prevented deregulation of glycolysis in the Klggs1 mutant but not the accumulation of free glucose. The mutants with higher residual uptake activity showed partially restored induction of pyruvate decarboxylase and activation of potassium transport.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 
23100767	20121027	Indian_J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Strain improvement of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 for increased cellulase production.	The strain of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 was subjected to mutation after treatment with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (NG) for 6 h followed by UV irradiation for 15 min. Successive mutants showed enhanced cellulase production, clear hydrolysis zone and rapid growth on Avicel-containing plate. Particularly, the mutant NU-6 showed approximately two-fold increases in activity of both FPA and CMCase in shake flask culture when grown on basal medium containing peptone (1%) and wheat bran (1%). The enzyme production was further optimized using eight different media. When a mixture of lactose and yeast cream was used as cellulase inducer, the mutant NU-6 yielded the highest enzyme and cell production with a FPase activity of 6.2 U ml(-1), a CMCase activity of 54.2 U ml(-1), a β-glucosidase activity of 0.39 U ml(-1), and a fungal biomass of 12.6 mg ml(-1). It deserved noting that the mutant NU-6 also secreted large amounts of xylanases (291.3 U ml(-1)). These results suggested that NU-6 should be an attractive producer for both cellulose and xylanase production. 
19937212	20091126	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	GacS-dependent regulation of enzymic and antifungal activities and synthesis of N-acylhomoserine lactones in rhizospheric strain Pseudomonas chlororaphis 449.	Pseudomonas chlororaphis strain 449 isolated from the rhizosphere of maize suppresses numerous plant pathogens in vitro. The strain produces phenazine antibiotics and synthesizes at least three types of quorum sensing signaling molecules, N-acylhomoserine lactones. Here we have shown that the rhizospheric P. chlororaphis strains 449, well known strain 30-84 as well as two other P. chlororaphis strains exhibit polygalacturonase activity. Using mini-Tn5 transposon mutagenesis, four independent mutants of strain P. chlororaphis 449 with insertion of mini-Tn5 Km2 in gene gacS of two-component GacA-GacS system of global regulation were selected. All these mutant strains were deficient in production of extracellular proteinase(s), phenazines, N-acylhomoserine lactones synthesis, and did not inhibit the growth of G(+) bacteria in comparison with the wild type strain. The P. chlororaphis 449-06 gacS (-) mutant studied in greater detail was deficient in polygalacturonase, pectin methylesterase activities, swarming motility and antifungal activity. It is the first time the involvement of GacA-GacS system in the regulation of enzymes of pectin metabolism, polygalacturonase and pectin methylesterase, was demonstrated in fluorescent pseudomonads. 
8806421	19960701	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization and expression of chitinase and 1,3-beta-glucanase genes in cotton.	We have isolated cDNA clones representing mRNAs encoding chitinase and 1,3-beta-glucanase in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) leaves. The chitinase clones were sequenced and found to encode a 28,806 Da protein with 71% amino acid sequence similarity to the SK2 chitinase from potato (Solanum tuberosum). The 1,3-beta-glucanase clones encoded a 37,645 Da protein with 57.6% identity to a 1,3-beta-glucanase from soybean (Glycine max). Northern blot analyses showed that chitinase mRNA is induced in plants treated with ethaphon or salicylic acid, whereas the levels of 1,3-beta-glucanase mRNA are relatively unaffected. Southern blots of cotton genomic DNA and genomic clones indicated chitinase is encoded by a small gene family of which two members, Chi 2;1 and Chi 2;2, were characterized. These genes share 97% sequence identity in their transcribed regions. The genes were found to have three exons which are 309, 154 and 550 bp long, and two introns 99 and 154 bp in length. The 5'-flanking regions of Chi 2;1 and Chi 2;2 exhibit a large degree of similarity and may contain sequences important for gene response to chemical agents and fungal attack. 
23390613	20130208	G3_(Bethesda)	D016428 D052061 	Functional analyses of Trichoderma reesei LAE1 reveal conserved and contrasting roles of this regulator.	The putative methyltransferase LaeA is a global regulator that affects the expression of multiple secondary metabolite gene clusters in several fungi, and it can modify heterochromatin structure in Aspergillus nidulans. We have recently shown that the LaeA ortholog of Trichoderma reesei (LAE1), a fungus that is an industrial producer of cellulase and hemicellulase enzymes, regulates the expression of cellulases and polysaccharide hydrolases. To learn more about the function of LAE1 in T. reesei, we assessed the effect of deletion and overexpression of lae1 on genome-wide gene expression. We found that in addition to positively regulating 7 of 17 polyketide or nonribosomal peptide synthases, genes encoding ankyrin-proteins, iron uptake, heterokaryon incompatibility proteins, PTH11-receptors, and oxidases/monoxygenases are major gene categories also regulated by LAE1. chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing with antibodies against histone modifications known to be associated with transcriptionally active (H3K4me2 and -me3) or silent (H3K9me3) chromatin detected 4089 genes bearing one or more of these methylation marks, of which 75 exhibited a correlation between either H3K4me2 or H3K4me3 and regulation by LAE1. Transformation of a laeA-null mutant of A. nidulans with the T. reesei lae1 gene did not rescue sterigmatocystin formation and further impaired sexual development. LAE1 did not interact with A. nidulans VeA in yeast two-hybrid assays, whereas it interacted with the T. reesei VeA ortholog, VEL1. LAE1 was shown to be required for the expression of vel1, whereas the orthologs of velB and VosA are unaffected by lae1 deletion. Our data show that the biological roles of A. nidulans LaeA and T. reesei LAE1 are much less conserved than hitherto thought. In T. reesei, LAE1 appears predominantly to regulate genes increasing relative fitness in its environment. 
23227186	20121211	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	The Penicillium echinulatum secretome on sugar cane bagasse.	Plant feedstocks are at the leading front of the biofuel industry based on the potential to promote economical, social and environmental development worldwide through sustainable scenarios related to energy production. Penicillium echinulatum is a promising strain for the bioethanol industry based on its capacity to produce large amounts of cellulases at low cost. The secretome profile of P. echinulatum after grown on integral sugarcane bagasse, microcrystalline cellulose and three types of pretreated sugarcane bagasse was evaluated using shotgun proteomics. The comprehensive chemical characterization of the biomass used as the source of fungal nutrition, as well as biochemical activity assays using a collection of natural polysaccharides, were also performed. Our study revealed that the enzymatic repertoire of P. echinulatum is geared mainly toward producing enzymes from the cellulose complex (endogluganases, cellobiohydrolases and β-glucosidases). Glycoside hydrolase (GH) family members, important to biomass-to-biofuels conversion strategies, were identified, including endoglucanases GH5, 7, 6, 12, 17 and 61, β-glycosidase GH3, xylanases GH10 and GH11, as well as debranching hemicellulases from GH43, GH62 and CE2 and pectinanes from GH28. Collectively, the approach conducted in this study gave new insights on the better comprehension of the composition and degradation capability of an industrial cellulolytic strain, from which a number of applied technologies, such as biofuel production, can be generated. 
494242	19790101	Tissue_Cell	D016428 	A freeze-fracture study of hormone-induced branching in the fungus Achlya.	The induction of the male sexual organ primordia (antheridial hyphae) by the steriod hormone antheridiol in the water mold Achlya ambisexualis Raper requires the production and secretion of the enzyme cellulase. It is postulated that a localized secretion of cellulase produces a limited area of wall hydrolysis that is blown out into a lateral bleb by turgor pressure. Freeze-etch preparations show membrane profiles similar to those seen in other systems where exocytosis is occurring. Such a mechanism would provide the required localized secretion of cellulase. Water stress, imposed by polyethylene glycol, prevents the formation of antheridial hyphae, the secretion of cellulase and the expected membrane profiles. After a period of recovery from water stress antheridial hyphae are formed, cellulase secretion occurs and the expected membrane profiles are restored. 
19826921	20091015	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Expression of fungal cellulase gene in Lactococcus lactis to construct novel recombinant silage inoculants.	The facultative anaerobic bacterium Lactococcus lactis has been used as a host for expression of a gene isolated from the anaerobic rumen fungus Neocallimastix sp. The coding region of the cellulase gene was obtained from the fungus with the aid of polymerase chain reaction amplification. The gene was then transformed into pCT vector system and the constructed recombinant plasmid was introduced into two L. lactis strains (IL403 and MG1363) by electroporation. The gene encoding the fungal originated cellulase was expressed in both strains successfully although the expression level was relatively lower in comparison with the original enzyme activity. Genetically modified L. lactis strains were used as silage inoculants for pre-biodegradation of the plant biomass during ensiling. That treatment resulted in a notable reduction of the acid detergent fiber (ADF) and neutral detergent fiber (NDF) contents of the plant biomass used as silage material. Inoculation with recombinant strain IL1043 resulted in 4.8 and 9.7 % decrease in NDF and ADF contents, respectively while the inoculation of silage with strain MG1363 decreased the ADF content by >5 %. 
22092749	20111119	Clin._Exp._Allergy	D016428 	Increased chitinase expression and fungal-specific antibodies in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of asthmatic children.	Increasing evidence highlights the contribution of chitinases and fungal infection to the development of asthma. The purpose of this study was to characterize chitinase expression and serological markers of fungal infection in children with severe asthma. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected from children undergoing clinically indicated flexible bronchoscopy. A diagnosis of asthma was confirmed by pulmonary function testing. BALF was tested for chitinase activity and YKL-40 (an enzymatically inactive chitinase) concentrations. Specimens were cultured for fungal organisms and tested for cryptococcal antigen by ELISA. IgG and IgA reactivity to whole extract fungal (Aspergillus fumigatus, Alternaria alternata, Cryptococcus neoformans and Candida albicans) proteins were determined by immunoblot assay. Among the 37 patients studied, 30 were asthmatic and 7 were non-asthmatic. Asthmatics exhibited elevated serum IgE levels (median: 748 IU/mL, IQR: 219-1765 IU/mL). Chitinase activity was greater in the BALF of asthmatics (mean, 0.85 ± 1.2 U/mL) compared with non-asthmatics (mean: 0.23 ± 0.21 U/mL, P = 0.012). Likewise YKL-40 concentrations were higher in the BALF of asthmatics and correlated with chitinase activity. There was a trend towards increased fungal-specific IgG in the BALF of asthmatics compared with non-asthmatics and for C. albicans this difference reached statistical significance. IgA reactivity to C. neoformans and A. fumigatus was greater in the BALF of asthmatics compared with non-asthmatics. Compared with non-asthmatics, asthmatic children exhibited increased chitinase activity and increased YKL-40 levels in BALF. Increased IgG and IgA reactivity to fungal proteins in the BALF of asthmatics may reflect a local response to fungal infection. Our findings are consistent with and suggest a role for chitinases in asthma pathogenesis among Bronx children and provide serological evidence of an association between fungal infection and severe asthma. 
8675298	19960601	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013487 	Molecular cloning and characterization of the Coccidioides immitis complement fixation/chitinase antigen.	Detection of anti-Coccidioides complement-fixing (CF) antibody is a valuable diagnostic and prognostic aid in coccidioidomycosis. The CF antibody response is directed against a heat-labile antigen that has chitinase activity, hereafter referred to as the CF/chitinase protein. To identify and clone this immunoreactive enzyme, we constructed a Coccidioides immitis cDNA lambda ZAP expression library from spherule RNA and detected fusion peptides expressing CF epitopes by immunoscreening. A cDNA clone consisting of 1,623 bp was identified, sequenced, and found to contain a single open reading frame that encodes a protein of 47 kDa with 427 amino acids. Deduced amino acid sequence analyses showed that the cloned CF/chitinase cDNA contains a 35-amino-acid region, beginning at Ser-18 and ending at and ending at Arg-52 which has 92% homology with the reported N-terminal amino acid sequence of authentic CF/chitinase protein. The first 17 amino acids in the deduced sequence of the cloned cDNA are not present on the mature CF/chitinase protein, suggesting that it may be a signal peptide. Expression of the CF/chitinase cDNA insert by using the pGEX-4T-3 vector yields a fusion peptide that bears CF-specific epitopes and shows chitinase activity. The CF/chitinase clone will enable large-scale production of the recombinant CF antigen for use in immunoassays and facilitate studies on the role of chitinase in the morphogenesis of C. immitis. 
23436287	20130226	Glycobiology	D016428 	Identification and characterization of endo-β-N-acetylglucosaminidase from methylotrophic yeast Ogataea minuta.	In four yeast strains, Ogataea minuta, Candida parapolymorpha, Pichia anomala and Zygosaccharomyces rouxii, we identified endo-β-N-acetylglucosaminidase (ENGase) homologous sequences by database searches; in each of the four species, a corresponding enzyme activity was also confirmed in crude cell extract obtained from each strain. The O. minuta ENGase (Endo-Om)-encoding gene was directly amplified from O. minuta genomic DNA and sequenced. The Endo-Om-encoding gene contained a 2319-bp open-reading frame; the deduced amino acid sequence indicated that the putative protein belonged to glycoside hydrolase family 85. The gene was introduced into O. minuta, and the recombinant Endo-Om was overexpressed and purified. When the enzyme assay was performed using an agalacto-biantennary oligosaccharide as a substrate, Endo-Om exhibited both hydrolysis and transglycosylation activities. Endo-Om exhibited hydrolytic activity for high-mannose, hybrid, biantennary and (2,6)-branched triantennary N-linked oligosaccharides, but not for tetraantennary, (2,4)-branched triantennary, bisecting N-acetylglucosamine structure and core-fucosylated biantennary N-linked oligosaccharides. Endo-Om also was able to hydrolyze N-glycans attached to RNase B and human transferrin under both denaturing and nondenaturing conditions. Thus, the present study reports the detection and characterization of a novel yeast ENGase. 
9828459	19981126	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Overproduction of recombinant Trichoderma reesei cellulases by Aspergillus oryzae and their enzymatic properties.	We have established an expression system of Trichoderma reesei cellulase genes using Aspergillus oryzae as a host. In this system, the expression of T. reesei cellulase genes were regulated under the control of A. oryzae Taka-amylase promoter and the cellulase genes were highly expressed when maltose was used as a main carbon source for inducer. The production of recombinant cellulases by A. oryzae transformants reached a maximum after 3-4 days of cultivation. In some cases, proteolysis of recombinant cellulases was observed in the late stage of cultivation. The recombinant cellulases were purified and characterized. The apparent molecular weights of recombinant cellulases were more or less larger than those of native enzymes. The optimal temperatures and pHs of recombinant cellulases were 50-70 degrees C and 4-5, respectively. Among the recombinant cellulases, endoglucanase I showed broad substrate specificities and high activity when compared with the other cellulases investigated here. 
12076256	20020622	APMIS	D016428 	Investigation of Candida dubliniensis in Candida spp.-positive hemocultures.	Candida dubliniensis is one of the Candida species which was first recognized in 1995. The yeast was misidentified because of its phenotypic similarities with Candida albicans. In this study, blood samples of patients from various departments at Ankara University Medical Faculty between January 1996 and September 2000 were investigated for distribution of Candida spp. and presence of C. dubliniensis. Ninety-eight culture positive fungi were included in the study. Phenotypic tests for identification of C. dubliniensis and tests for differentiation of the yeast from C. albicans, such as colony morphology on Staib agar, growth at 42 degrees C and 45 degrees C, beta-glucosidase activity and carbohydrate assimilation, were carried out. Sixty-four of the isolates produced germ tubes and chlamydospores, and none of them had the phenotypic characteristics of C. dubliniensis. Further large-scale studies of specific patient groups are necessary to reveal the etiologic importance of this yeast. 
3254166	19881101	Biochem._Int.	D016428 	Isolation, purification and regeneration of protoplasts from Sporotrichum thermophile conidiospores.	Protoplasts of uniform size were prepared from mononucleated conidiospores of Sporotrichum thermophile. Conidia were preincubated in glucose yeast extract medium at 45 C for 4 h. The conidia were collected resuspended in buffer containing 0.6 M KCl (as stabilizer), and incubated with Novozyme SP249 and Cellulase CP at 37 C for 6 h. The protoplasts were separated from cell wall fragments and intact conidia by centrifugation over 50% sucrose. The purified protoplasts were regenerated in glucose yeast extract broth after 7 h of incubation at 45 C. 
10809732	20000516	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glucanosyltransferases play an active role in the biosynthesis of the fungal cell wall.	A novel 1,3-beta-glucanosyltransferase isolated from the cell wall of Aspergillus fumigatus was recently characterized. This enzyme splits internally a 1,3-beta-glucan molecule and transfers the newly generated reducing end to the non-reducing end of another 1, 3-beta-glucan molecule forming a 1,3-beta linkage, resulting in the elongation of 1,3-beta-glucan chains. The GEL1 gene encoding this enzyme was cloned and sequenced. The predicted amino acid sequence of Gel1p was homologous to several yeast protein families encoded by GAS of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, PHR of Candida albicans, and EPD of Candida maltosa. Although the expression of these genes is required for correct morphogenesis in yeast, the biochemical function of the encoded proteins was unknown. The biochemical assays performed on purified recombinant Gas1p, Phr1p, and Phr2p showed that these proteins have a 1,3-beta-glucanosyltransferase activity similar to that of Gel1p. Biochemical data and sequence analysis have shown that Gel1p is attached to the membrane through a glycosylphosphatidylinositol in a similar manner as the yeast homologous proteins. The activity has been also detected in membrane preparations, showing that this 1,3-beta-glucanosyltransferase is indeed active in vivo. Our results show that transglycosidases anchored to the plasma membrane via glycosylphosphatidylinositols can play an active role in fungal cell wall synthesis. 
11941461	20020410	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Biochemical, molecular and structural analysis of multiple thaumatin-like proteins from the elderberry tree (Sambucus nigra L.).	Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) were isolated and characterized from fruits and leaves of elderberry (Sambucus nigra) and their corresponding genes cloned. In addition, the developmental regulation and induction of the different TLPs was followed in some detail. Ripening berries accumulated a fruit-specific TLP during the final stages of maturation. This fruit-specific TLP had no antifungal activity and was devoid of beta-glucanase activity. Leaves constitutively expressed a TLP that closely resembled the fruit-specific homologue. Treatment with jasmonate methyl ester induced two additional TLPs in leaves but did not induce or enhance the expression of TLPs in immature berries. In contrast to jasmonate methyl ester, both ethephon and garlic extract induced the expression of a TLP in unripe berries that normally do not express any TLP. Sequence analysis and molecular modeling indicated that all elderberry thaumatin-like proteins share a high sequence similarity with group-5 pathogenesis-related proteins. However, the proteins encoded by the different sequences differed from each other in isoelectric point and the distribution of the charges on the surface of the molecule. 
20352968	20100401	Sheng_Wu_Gong_Cheng_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Cloning and characterization of a beta-glucosidase from marine metagenome].	In the present study, through a functional strategy, a metagenome library of the marine microbes from the surface water of the South China Sea was screened for beta-glucosidase and six positive clones were obtained. One of these clones, pSB47B2, was subcloned and further analysed in sequence. The result showed that there was an open reading frame for a novel beta-glucosidase, which was nominated as bgl1B. Using pET22b(+) as vector and Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) as host, Bgl1B was overexpressed recombinantly with high yield obtained and substantial enzymatic activity detected. The recombinant protein (rBgllB) was purified by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography and further biochemically characterized. The results indicated that, with pNPG as substrate, the optimum pH and temperature for the hydrolytic activity of rBgl1B were about 6.5 and 40 degrees C respectively. Under the optimum conditions, rBgl1B hydrolyzed pNPG with an activity up to 39.7 U/mg, Km and Vmax being 0.288 mmol/L and 36.9 micromol/min respectively. In addition, rBgl1B could also hydrolyze cellobiose, with a Km of 0.173 mmol/L and a Vmax of 35 micromol/min. However, we did not detect evident hydrolytic activity of rBgl1B to lactose, maltose, sucrose, and CMC. The enzymatic activity of rBgl1B to pNPG was stimulated to certain degrees by low concentration of Ca2+ or Mn2+, whereas it exhibited significant tolerance against high Na+. Distinguished from most of the beta-glucosidases derived from fungi, which display the highest activities under acidic conditions, rBgl1B exhibited relatively higher activity and stability at pH between 7.0 and 9.0. 
11273698	20010329	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Solution structure of a type I dockerin domain, a novel prokaryotic, extracellular calcium-binding domain.	The type I dockerin domain is responsible for incorporating its associated glycosyl hydrolase into the bacterial cellulosome, a multienzyme cellulolytic complex, via its interaction with a receptor domain (cohesin domain) of the cellulosomal scaffolding subunit. The highly conserved dockerin domain is characterized by two Ca(2+)-binding sites with sequence similarity to the EF-hand motif. Here, we present the three-dimensional solution structure of the 69 residue dockerin domain of Clostridium thermocellum cellobiohydrolase CelS. Torsion angle dynamics calculations utilizing a total of 728 NOE-derived distance constraints and 79 torsion angle restraints yielded an ensemble of 20 structures with an average backbone r.m.s.d. for residues 5 to 29 and 32 to 66 of 0.54 A from the mean structure. The structure consists of two Ca(2+)-binding loop-helix motifs connected by a linker; the E helices entering each loop of the classical EF-hand motif are absent from the dockerin domain. Each dockerin Ca(2+)-binding subdomain is stabilized by a cluster of buried hydrophobic side-chains. Structural comparisons reveal that, in its non-complexed state, the dockerin fold displays a dramatic departure from that of Ca(2+)-bound EF-hand domains. A putative cohesin-binding surface, comprised of conserved hydrophobic and basic residues, is proposed, providing new insight into cellulosome assembly. 
19351582	20090409	Bioelectrochemistry	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Biofuel cell controlled by enzyme logic network--approaching physiologically regulated devices.	A "smart" biofuel cell switchable ON and OFF upon application of several chemical signals processed by an enzyme logic network was designed. The biocomputing system performing logic operations on the input signals was composed of four enzymes: alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), amyloglucosidase (AGS), invertase (INV) and glucose dehydrogenase (GDH). These enzymes were activated by different combinations of chemical input signals: NADH, acetaldehyde, maltose and sucrose. The sequence of biochemical reactions catalyzed by the enzymes models a logic network composed of concatenated AND/OR gates. Upon application of specific "successful" patterns of the chemical input signals, the cascade of biochemical reactions resulted in the formation of gluconic acid, thus producing acidic pH in the solution. This resulted in the activation of a pH-sensitive redox-polymer-modified cathode in the biofuel cell, thus, switching ON the entire cell and dramatically increasing its power output. Application of another chemical signal (urea in the presence of urease) resulted in the return to the initial neutral pH value, when the O(2)-reducing cathode and the entire cell are in the mute state. The reversible activation-inactivation of the biofuel cell was controlled by the enzymatic reactions logically processing a number of chemical input signals applied in different combinations. The studied biofuel cell exemplifies a new kind of bioelectronic device where the bioelectronic function is controlled by a biocomputing system. Such devices will provide a new dimension in bioelectronics and biocomputing benefiting from the integration of both concepts. 
7851411	19950115	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Kinetics of beta-1,3 glucan interaction at the donor and acceptor sites of the fungal glucosyltransferase encoded by the BGL2 gene.	Formation of branched glucan, glucan-glucan cross links, and glucan-chitin cross links most likely involves the action of fungal wall glucanases and transglycosylases. We developed an HPLC assay using radiolabeled substrates in order to study the kinetics of interaction of donor and acceptor molecules with a glucosyltransferase present in the cell walls of both Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans. Purified transferase first forms an activated intermediate from a donor beta-1,3 glucan, releasing free disaccharide. The activated intermediate is transferred, in the presence of an appropriate acceptor beta-1,3 glucan, yielding a linear glucan containing a beta-1,6 linkage at the transfer site [Yu, L., Goldman, R., Sullivan, P., Walker, G. & Fesik, S. W. (1993) J. Biomol. NMR 3, 429-441]. An apparent Km of 0.41 mM for the acceptor site was determined using laminaritetraose as the acceptor. An apparent Km of 31 mM for the donor site was determined using increasing concentrations of laminaripentaose, and monitoring formation of laminaribiose. The enzyme functioned as a glucanase at low concentrations of acceptor molecules, with excess H2O competing for reaction at the activated donor site, thus resulting in hydrolysis. However, as the concentration of acceptor increased, the reaction shifted from hydrolysis to glucosyltransfer. The reaction appeared specific for beta-1,3 glucan as acceptor, in as much as no transfer was detected when either hexa-N-acetyl-chitohexaose or maltooligosaccharides were used as acceptors. The roles of such an enzymic activity in cell wall metabolism is discussed in terms of repair, cross linking and incorporation of newly synthesized chains of beta-1,3 glucan into the previously existing cell wall structure. 
24031857	20130914	Braz._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	The hydrolysis of agro-industrial residues by holocellulose-degrading enzymes.	Holocellulose structures from agro-industrial residues rely on main and side chain attacking enzymes with different specificities for complete hydrolysis. Combinations of crude enzymatic extracts from different fungal species, including Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus niger and Trichoderma longibrachiatum, were applied to sugar cane bagasse, banana stem and dirty cotton residue to investigate the hydrolysis of holocellulose structures. A. terreus and A. oryzae were the best producers of FPase and xylanase activities. A combination of A. terreus and A. oryzae extracts in a 50% proportion provided optimal hydrolysis of dirty cotton residue and banana stem. For the hydrolysis of sugar cane bagasse, the best results were obtained with samples only containing A. terreus crude extract.  
2535501	19890301	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013486 D013487 	Production of cell wall-degrading enzymes by Aspergillus nidulans: a model system for fungal pathogenesis of plants.	The cell wall-degrading enzymes polygalacturonase and pectate lyase have been suggested to be crucial for penetration and colonization of plant tissues by some fungal pathogens. We have found that Aspergillus nidulans (= Emericella nidulans), a saprophytic Ascomycete, produces levels of these enzymes equal to those produced by soft-rotting Erwinia species. Induction of polygacturonase and pectate lyase in A. nidulans requires substrate and is completely repressed by glucose. Surprisingly, inoculation of excised plant tissues with A. nidulans conidia leads to formation of necrotic, water-soaked lesions within which the organism sporulates. Thus, A. nidulans has phytopathogenic potential. The release of glucose and other sugars from wounded tissues may repress pectolytic enzyme production and limit disease development. Therefore, we tested creA204, a mutation that relieves glucose repression of some A. nidulans carbon utilization enzymes, for its effect on production of pectolytic enzymes. creA204 failed to relieve catabolite repression of polygalacturonase or pectate lyase and had no effect on disease severity. 
17604706	20070703	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Preceding hydrophobic and beta-branched amino acids attenuate splicing by the CnePRP8 intein.	As the Cne PRP8 intein is active and exists in an essential gene of an important fungal pathogen, inhibitors of splicing and assays for intein activity are of interest. The self-splicing activity of Cne PRP8, the intein from the Prp8 gene of Cryptococcus neoformans, was assessed in different heterologous fusion proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. Placement of a putatively inactive variant of the intein adjacent to the alpha-complementation peptide abolished the peptide's ability to restore beta-galactosidase activity, while an active variant allowed complementation. This alpha-complementation peptide therefore provides a facile assay of splicing which can be used to test potential inhibitors. When placed between two heterologous protein domains, splicing was impaired by a beta-branched amino acid immediately preceding the intein, while splicing occurred only with a hydroxyl or thiol immediately following the intein. Both these assays sensitively report impairment of splicing and provide information on how context constrains the splicing ability of Cne PRP8. 
23833180	20130709	Genetics	D016428 D013485 	Molecular determinants of sporulation in Ashbya gossypii.	Regulation of development and entry into sporulation is critical for fungi to ensure survival of unfavorable environmental conditions. Here we present an analysis of gene sets regulating sporulation in the homothallic ascomycete Ashbya gossypii. Deletion of components of the conserved pheromone/starvation MAP kinase cascades, e.g., STE11 and STE7, results in increased sporulation. In kar3 mutants sporulation is severely reduced, while deletion of KAR4 as well as of homologs of central Saccharomyces cerevisiae regulators of sporulation, IME1, IME2, IME4, and NDT80, abolishes sporulation in A. gossypii. Comparison of RNAseq transcript profiles of sporulation-deficient mutants identified a set of 67 down-regulated genes, most of which were up-regulated in the oversporulating ste12 mutant. One of these differentially expressed genes is an endoglucanase encoded by ENG2. We found that Eng2p promotes hyphal fragmentation as part of the developmental program of sporulation, which generates single-celled sporangia. Sporulation-deficient strains are arrested in their development but form sporangia. Supply of new nutrients enabled sporangia to return to hyphal growth, indicating that these cells are not locked in meiosis. Double-strand break (DSB) formation by Spo11 is apparently not required for sporulation; however, the absence of DMC1, which repairs DSBs in S. cerevisiae, results in very poor sporulation in A. gossypii. We present a comprehensive analysis of the gene repertoire governing sporulation in A. gossypii and suggest an altered regulation of IME1 expression compared to S. cerevisiae.  
21479830	20110412	Mycopathologia	D016428 	Identification of a major xylanase from Aspergillus flavus as a 14-kD protein.	Aspergillus flavus K49 secreted at least two xylanase activities when grown on a medium containing larch (wood) xylan as a sole carbon source. Enzyme activity was assayed using an agar medium containing Remazol Brilliant Blue R conjugated oat spelt xylan as substrate. Crude enzyme preparations were inhibited by Hg(+2), with an ED(50) of 17.5 mM and maximum inhibition of 83% at 50 mM. A concentrated sample of A. flavus K49 xylanase preparation was subjected to gel filtration chromatography on a P-30 column. A small protein peak coinciding with the major peak of xylanase activity was separated from the other secreted fungal proteins. An additional peak of xylanase activity was observed in fractions containing multiple fungal proteins. Analysis by denaturing sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of fractions containing the smaller molecular weight xylanase revealed a major and minor protein band in the vicinity of 14 kD. Analysis of these same fractions by acidic native PAGE revealed a single band. Confirmation of identity for the isolated xylanase was provided by isolation of a protein band from a SDS-PAGE gel, followed by trypsin digestion/analysis by tandem mass spectrometry. Comparison of the peptide library derived from this protein band with sequence data from the A. oryzae genomic data base provided a solid match with an endo-1,4-β-xylanase, XlnA. This identification is consistent with a low molecular weight protein associated with the major xylanolytic activity. XlnA may be a highly mobile (diffusible), plant wall hemicellulose degrading factor with significant activity during plant infection. 
2848632	19880901	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Role of cAMP in the mediation of glucose catabolite repression of glucoamylase synthesis in Aspergillus awamori.	Exogenous cAMP was shown to mimic glucose in its effect on the synthesis of glucoamylase in Aspergillus awamori. cAMP (4 mM) when added to the starch medium blocked the derepression of glucoamylase by inhibiting its protein synthesis by about twofold. The repressive effect of cAMP on the glucoamylase synthesis was found to be due to twofold reduction in the glucoamylase specific mRNA levels. This cAMP related repression of the glucoamylase mRNA levels was most likely brought about at the level of gene transcription as cAMP had no apparent effect on the processing or stability of glucoamylase mRNA. 
10517323	19991012	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Regulated nuclear localisation of the yeast transcription factor Ace2p controls expression of chitinase (CTS1) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The yeast transcription factor Ace2p regulates expression of the chitinase gene CTS1 in a cell cycle-dependent manner. Nuclear localisation of Ace2p is restricted to late M and early G phases of the mitotic cell cycle. We show here that this nuclear localisation is directly associated with regulation of CTS1 expression. Using a version of Ace2p tagged with a c-myc epitope, we show that the protein is excluded from the nucleus of cells during most phases of the mitotic cell cycle. A mutant derivative in which one threonine and two serine residues, which are candidate phosphorylation sites, were replaced by alanine (to mimic constitutive dephosphorylation) is localised in the nucleus throughout the cell cycle. The mechanism of localisation of Ace2p therefore involves regulation of its phosphorylation state, and closely resembles that used by the homologous transcription factor Swi5p. The wild-type Ace2 protein associates with Cdc28p in vivo, suggesting this may be the kinase that mediates the phosphorylation event. The stability of the protein is greatly reduced in a mutant that is constitutively localised to the nucleus, but is restored in a deletion derivative which remains in the cytoplasm. Ace2p is therefore controlled throughout the cell cycle at three levels: transcription, nuclear localisation, and proteolysis. 
20198641	20100304	Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	Proteome analysis of fungal and bacterial involvement in leaf litter decomposition.	Fungi and bacteria are key players in the decomposition of leaf litter, but their individual contributions to the process and their interactions are still poorly known. We combined semi-quantitative proteome analyses (1-D PAGE-LC-MS/MS) with qualitative and quantitative analyses of extracellular degradative enzyme activities to unravel the respective roles of a fungus and a bacterium during litter decomposition. Two model organisms, a mesophilic Gram-negative bacterium (Pectobacterium carotovorum) and an ascomycete (Aspergillus nidulans), were grown in both, pure culture and co-culture on minimal medium containing either glucose or beech leaf litter as sole carbon source. P. carotovorum grew best in co-culture with the fungus, whereas growth of A. nidulans was significantly reduced when the bacterium was present. This observation suggests that P. carotovorum has only limited capabilities to degrade leaf litter and profits from the degradation products of A. nidulans at the expense of fungal growth. In accordance with this interpretation, our proteome analysis revealed that most of the extracellular biodegradative enzymes (i.e. proteases, pectinases, and cellulases) in the cultures with beech litter were expressed by the fungus, the bacterium producing only low levels of pectinases. 
21287229	20110203	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Constitutive over-expression of pectinases in Penicillium occitanis CT1 mutant is transcriptionally regulated.	The CT1 mutant of Penicillium occitanis hyperproduces extracellular pectinases constitutively since it secretes pectinases even on glucose-containing medium. We show here that all other hydrolytic enzymes remain at low activities in CT1, confirming the specificity of the regulatory mutation towards pectinases. We isolated, by RT-PCR and through the construction of a cDNA library, three fragments coding for: a pectin lyase (pnl1), a polygalacturonase (pga1) and a pectate lyase (pal1). These fragments were used as probes in Northern blots analysis of the wild type strain CL100 and the CT1 mutant of P. occitanis grown in three culture conditions. The CT1 mutant showed a very high amount of pnl1, pga1 and pal1 mRNA either in pectin, glucose or glycerol grown cells while in the wild type CL100 strain, all transcripts were undetectable even on pectin. These results suggest that the CT1 mutation affects a trans-regulatory transcriptional factor regulating pectinase expression. 
18555361	19860401	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Production of cellulase enzymes and hydrolysis of steam-exploded wood.	Steam-exploded aspen has been examined as a candidate feedstock for both cellulose production and enzymatic hydrolysis of wood. Batch and fed-batch cultivation methods were evaluated and compared with previous experiments using ball-milled, crystalline cellulose (Solka Floe). Batch cultivation of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 on 9 wt% water-washed aspen yielded enzyme productivities and activities comparable to those obtained on Solka Floe (40 FP IU/L-h; 7. 5 FP IU/mL). Fed-batch cultivation of Rut C-30 resulted in higher enzyme productivities and tilers than batch cultivation (50 FP IU/L-h; 15 FP IU/mL). However, the overall enzyme production performance was lower than on Solka Floe at comparable cellulose feeding rates and concentrations. This may be due to the accumulation of steam explosion by-products and lignin in the fermentor.The hydrolysis of water-washed steam-exploded aspen was performed at different enzyme loadings and wood concentrations. Glucose production, using 10 and 15 wt% suspension, showed that while glucose concentration increased with wood load, the yield of glucose derived from cellulose decreased. With 10 wt% suspensions, it was possible to obtain a cellulose conversion to glucose above 95%. Low cellulose levels in the hydrolyzates indicated that the filter paper activity ratios (approximately 1.5), a significant result since the fungus was grown exclusively on wood. mIt also suggested that the observed yield decrease is more likely to be caused by glucose than cellobiose inhibition of the enzymes. 
19169854	20090127	Cell._Mol._Life_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Chitotriosidase and gene therapy for fungal infections.	Chitotriosidase secreted by activated human macrophages has been implicated in the defence against chitin-bearing pathogens. The antifungal properties of human chitotriosidase were investigated here following retroviral vector-mediated gene transfer of the open reading frame of the chitotriosidase gene into Chinese hamster ovary cells. A chitinase assay confirmed that the engineered cells secreted recombinant chitotriosidase constitutively. Two dimensional gel electrophoresis and western blotting indicated that the recombinant protein is the major, chitin-binding, fifty kilodalton isoform. Culture medium conditioned by the transduced cells inhibited growth of isolates of Aspergillus niger, Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans. Furthermore, longevity was significantly increased in a mouse model of cryptococcosis when cells transduced with the chitotriosidase gene and encapsulated in alginate microspheres were implanted subcutaneously in the animals. Engraftment of microcapsules containing cells transduced with the chitotriosidase gene has the potential to combat infections caused by chitinous pathogens through the prolonged delivery of recombinant chitotriosidase. 
19908331	20091113	World_J._Gastroenterol.	D016421 D013485 D016454 	Potential role of chitinase 3-like-1 in inflammation-associated carcinogenic changes of epithelial cells.	The family of mammalian chitinases includes members both with and without glycohydrolase enzymatic activity against chitin, a polymer of N-acetylglucosamine. Chitin is the structural component of fungi, crustaceans, insects and parasitic nematodes, but is completely absent in mammals. Exposure to antigens containing chitin- or chitin-like structures sometimes induces strong T helper type-I responses in mammals, which may be associated with the induction of mammalian chitinases. Chitinase 3-like-1 (CHI3L1), a member of the mammalian chitinase family, is induced specifically during the course of inflammation in such disorders as inflammatory bowel disease, hepatitis and asthma. In addition, CHI3L1 is expressed and secreted by several types of solid tumors including glioblastoma, colon cancer, breast cancer and malignant melanoma. Although the exact function of CHI3L1 in inflammation and cancer is still largely unknown, CHI3L1 plays a pivotal role in exacerbating the inflammatory processes and in promoting angiogenesis and remodeling of the extracellular matrix. CHI3L1 may be highly involved in the chronic engagement of inflammation which potentiates development of epithelial tumorigenesis presumably by activating the mitogen-activated protein kinase and the protein kinase B signaling pathways. Anti-CHI3L1 antibodies or pan-chitinase inhibitors may have the potential to suppress CHI3L1-mediated chronic inflammation and the subsequent carcinogenic change in epithelial cells. 
13304	19761210	Mycopathologia	D016428 	Lytic enzymes in the autolysis of filamentous fungi.	The degrees of autolysis attained by five different genera of filamentous fungi during an incubation period of 60 days, under the same culture conditions were: 87.3% for Penicillium oxalicum; 65.9% for Neurospora crassa; 62.7% for Polystictus versicolor; 51.7% for Aspergillus niger and 23.5% for Nectria galligena. N. crassa, A. niger and P. versicolor reached the end of the autolysis during this incubation period (60 days), whereas P. oxalicum and N. galligena did not. The excretion of the lytic enzymes beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase, beta -1-3 glucanase, chitinase, invertase and acid phosphatase into the culture medium during growth and autolysis was investigated. The excretion of these enzymes was consistent with the degree of autolysis reached, the maximum excretion belonging to P. oxalicum and the minimum to N. galligena. The N. crassa invertase was excreted into the culture liquid at levels very much higher than the other enzymes studied, and at levels very much higher than the invertases excreted by the other fungi. 
1980004	19901201	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Elicitor-specific induction of one member of the chitinase gene family in Arachis hypogaea.	Chitinases are believed to play an important role in plant defence against bacterial and fungal attack. In peanut (Arachis hypogaea) chitinase genes form a small multigene family. Four chitinase cDNAs (chit 1-4) were isolated from cultured peanut cells. Expression of individual chit genes was assayed by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP). UV irradiation, dilution of cell cultures and treatment with Phytophthora megasperma (Pmg) elicitor or yeast extract were used to induce expression of chit genes. The chit 3 gene is constitutively expressed at a low level in untreated as well as in treated cultures; the expression of chit 4 gene is induced by each of the stimuli tested, whereas the chit 1 gene is activated by cell culture dilution and by yeast extract treatment. The chit 2 gene is strongly activated by treatment with cell wall components from the fungus Phytophthora megasperma but not by the other stimuli. These results indicate that chit 2 gene expression may be controlled by pathogen-specific regulatory elements. 
9456310	19980314	J._Cell_Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Pheromone-regulated genes required for yeast mating differentiation.	Yeast cells mate by an inducible pathway that involves agglutination, mating projection formation, cell fusion, and nuclear fusion. To obtain insight into the mating differentiation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we carried out a large-scale transposon tagging screen to identify genes whose expression is regulated by mating pheromone. 91,200 transformants containing random lacZ insertions were screened for beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) expression in the presence and absence of alpha factor, and 189 strains containing pheromone-regulated lacZ insertions were identified. Transposon insertion alleles corresponding to 20 genes that are novel or had not previously been known to be pheromone regulated were examined for effects on the mating process. Mutations in four novel genes, FIG1, FIG2, KAR5/ FIG3, and FIG4 were found to cause mating defects. Three of the proteins encoded by these genes, Fig1p, Fig2p, and Fig4p, are dispensible for cell polarization in uniform concentrations of mating pheromone, but are required for normal cell polarization in mating mixtures, conditions that involve cell-cell communication. Fig1p and Fig2p are also important for cell fusion and conjugation bridge shape, respectively. The fourth protein, Kar5p/Fig3p, is required for nuclear fusion. Fig1p and Fig2p are likely to act at the cell surface as Fig1:: beta-gal and Fig2::beta-gal fusion proteins localize to the periphery of mating cells. Fig4p is a member of a family of eukaryotic proteins that contain a domain homologous to the yeast Sac1p. Our results indicate that a variety of novel genes are expressed specifically during mating differentiation to mediate proper cell morphogenesis, cell fusion, and other steps of the mating process. 
560832	19770513	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 	Sophorose metabolism and cellulase induction in Trichoderma.	The cellulase inducer sophorose was rapidly catabolized to CO2 and H2O by Trichoderma: only small amounts were used to induce the synthesis of cellulase. 3H-sophorose uptake began after a lag of 1 h and its half-life in the medium was less than 5 h. Cellulase activity in the medium did not increase till 6 h after the addition of sophorose and reached a half maximum value at 14 h. The presence of free sophorose in the medium was required for continuous cellulase production. Several small sophorose addition induced much more cellulase than an equivalent single dose. These results are attributed to two pathways of sophorose utilization, a catabolic pathway that has a high capacity but low affinity for sophorose and an inductive pathway having a lower capacity but higher affinity for sophorose. 
11198198	20010224	Naturwissenschaften	D016428 D013485 	Low chitinase activity in Acacia myrmecophytes: a potential trade-off between biotic and chemical defences?	We determined chitinase activity in leaves of four myrmecophytic and four non-myrmecophytic leguminous species at the plants' natural growing sites in Mexico. Myrmecophytic plants (or 'ant plants') have obligate mutualisms with ants protecting them against herbivores and pathogenic fungi. Plant chitinases can be considered a reliable measure of plant resistance to pathogenic fungi. The myrmecophytic Acacia species, which were colonised by mutualistic ants, exhibited at least six-fold lower levels of chitinase activity compared with the non-myrmecophytic Acacia farnesiana and three other non-myrmecophytes. Though belonging to different phylogenetic groups, the myrmecophytic Acacia species formed one distinct group in the data set, which was clearly separated from the non-myrmecophytic species. These findings allowed for comparison between two recent hypotheses that attempt to explain low chitinase activity in ant plants. Most probably, chitinases are reduced in myrmecophytic plant species because these are effectively defended indirectly due to their symbiosis with mutualistic ants. 
21656138	20110610	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Development of a simple cultivation method for isolating hitherto-uncultured cellulase-producing microbes.	Although enrichment culture is typically employed to isolate cellulolytic microbes, this approach tends to favor fast-growing species and discriminates against all others. Therefore, efforts to prevent the overgrowth of fast-growing species are necessary to isolate novel cellulase-producing strains. In this study, we developed a simple culture method for isolating hitherto-uncultured microbes that possess cellulase activity, particularly exocellulase. In this method, the microbial source (a forest soil) was suspended in sterilized water and inoculated onto a mineral salts agar medium, which was then overlaid with filter paper to sandwich the microbial suspension between the agar surface and paper. The filter paper fibers served to immobilize the microbial cells and were the dominant carbon source. Following cultivation at 30°C for 2 weeks, emerging colonies were isolated based on their morphology and were then subjected to phylogenetic and enzyme analyses. Using this method, 2,150 CFUs/g dry soil were obtained, and the ratio of fungal to bacterial isolates was approximately 4:1. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that most fungal and bacterial isolates belong to ten and two genera, respectively. Notably, all isolates possessed exocellulase activity, and several strains showed strong activity that was comparable to Trichoderma cellulase. Many isolates also exhibited cellulase and xylanase activity, and several strains possessed laccase activity. It is expected that the culture method described here will be useful for the isolation of hitherto-uncultured cellulolytic microbes and the identification of novel cellulases. 
15909137	20050524	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Branching mutants of Aspergillus oryzae with improved amylase and protease production on solid substrates.	To study the relation between the number of hyphal tips and protein secretion during growth on a solid substrate, we have constructed two mutant strains of Aspergillus oryzae with increased hyphal branching. We have analysed hydrolytic enzyme activities during growth on wheat kernels (WK) of A. oryzae strains carrying the disrupted allele of the pclA gene encoding a secretion pathway specific (KEX2-like) endo-protease and the disrupted allele of the pg/pi-tp gene encoding a phosphatidylglycerol/phosphatidylinositol transfer protein. The biomass levels produced by the pclA and pg/pi-tp disrupted strains on wheat-based solid media were similar as found for the wild-type strain. However, the pclA disrupted strain showed much more compact colony morphology than the other two strains. Sporulation of the pclA and pg/pi-tp disrupted strains occurred, respectively, 2 days and 1 day later, compared to the wild type during fermentation on ground WK. During surface growth, microscopic analysis revealed that the hyphal growth unit length (L (hgu)) of the pclA and pg/pi-tp disrupted strains was, on average, 50 and 74% of that of the wild-type strain. This implies that in both mutant strains, a higher branching frequency occurs than in the wild-type strain. Compared to the wild-type strain, the pclA and pg/pi-tp disrupted strains produced at least 50% more amylase, at least 100% more glucoamylase and at least 90% more protease activity levels after growth on WK. These results support the hypothesis that branching mutants with an increased branching frequency can improve the solid state fermentation process. 
7764387	19931101	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Secretion of calf chymosin from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae.	Active calf chymosin was secreted from Aspergillus oryzae transformants when the chymosin cDNA was expressed under the control of glucoamylase gene (glaA) promoter. Secreted prochymosin was autocatalytically activated to the chymosin (0.07-0.16 mg/l). Western blot analysis showed that a secreted protein immunoreactive with an anti-chymosin antibody was of similar size to authentic chymosin. Northern blot analysis revealed that mRNA of the chymosin cDNA was expressed at as high level as that of the glaA gene. The size and the level of the transcript were different among transformants, due to the integration position of the plasmid on the chromosome. 
11045447	20001025	Chem._Pharm._Bull.	D016428 D013485 	Argadin, a new chitinase inhibitor, produced by Clonostachys sp. FO-7314.	A new chitinase inhibitor, designated as argadin (1), was isolated from the cultured broth of a fungal strain FO-7314. The strain was identified as Clonostachys sp. from the morphological characteristics. Argadin was purified from the cultured mycelium by a combination of cation exchange, adsorption and gel filtration chromatographic methods. The structure of argadin was elucidated as cyclo(Nomega-acetyl-L-arginyl-D-prolyl-homoseryl-histidyl-L- 2-aminoadipyl) in which homoseryl gamma-methylene bonded to histidyl alpha-amino residue. The IC50 value of argadin against Lucilia cuprina (blowfly) chitinase was 150 nM at 37 degrees C and 3.4 nM at 20 degrees C. Argadin arrested the moult of cockroach larvae upon injection into the ventral abdominal part. 
22915822	20120824	J._Virol.	D016428 D052061 	Internal catalase protects herpes simplex virus from inactivation by hydrogen peroxide.	Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) was shown to contain catalase, an enzyme able to detoxify hydrogen peroxide by converting it to water and oxygen. Studies with a catalase inhibitor indicated that virus-associated catalase can have a role in protecting the virus from oxidative inactivation. HSV-1 was found to be more sensitive to killing by hydrogen peroxide in the presence of a catalase inhibitor than in its absence. The results suggest a protective role for catalase during the time HSV-1 spends in the oxidizing environment outside a host cell. 
11272822	20010329	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Intraspecific divergence of Saccharomyces kluyveri as revealed by the nucleotide sequences of 18S-28S rRNA spacer regions and alpha-galactosidase MEL genes.	In the five strains classified as the yeast Saccharomyces kluyveri, several substitutions were observed in the two internal transcribed spacer regions between 18S and 28S rRNA. A PCR reaction with primers targeted to the MEL1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae amplified fragments of the expected size, and those sequences showed significant divergence in the strains of S. kluyveri. 
23580136	20130413	J._Sci._Food_Agric.	D016428 D013485 	Antifungal action of Pichia anomala against aflatoxigenic Aspergillus flavus and its application as a feed supplement.	The disastrous problem of animal feed contamination by mycotoxigenic fungi continues to challenge researchers and health overseers worldwide. With the aim of preventing Aspergillus flavus growth in vitro and in corn feed, the yeast Pichia anomala was examined as a biocontrol agent. The yeast strain could efficiently prohibit the growth of A. flavus. P. anomala was able to produce exo-chitinase and β-1,3-glucanase which could be suggested as a mode of action for its antifungal activity. Scanning electron microscopy of cultured P. anomala with fungal hypha revealed that A. flavus was colonised by the biocontrol yeast which subsequently led to complete hyphal lysis and deterioration. The supplementation with of P. anomala cells, as a protein source, led to an obvious increase in animals' weight gain and protein content in feed grain. Moreover, after consumption of P. anomala-supplemented feed, there was a remarkable decrease in the mortality rate among fed animals. P. anomala could be strongly recommended as a biocontrol agent against A. flavus which contaminates animal feed. Furthermore, the application of yeast cells, as a feed additive, proved its efficiency for escalating protein content and enhancing animal performance. 
23910542	20130806	Trends_Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Cellulases for biomass degradation: comparing recombinant cellulase expression platforms.	Improvement of cellulase expression has the potential to change the nature of the biofuel industry. Increasing the economic feasibility of cellulase systems would significantly broaden the range of practicable biomass conversion, lowering the environmental impact of our civilisations' fuel needs. Cellulases are derived from certain fungi and bacteria, which are often difficult to culture on an industrial scale. Accordingly, methods to recombinantly express important cellulases and other glycosyl hydrolase (GH) enzymes are under serious investigation. Herein, we examine the latest developments in bacterial, yeast, plant, and fungal expression systems. We discuss current strategies for producing cellulases, and evaluate the benefits and drawbacks in yield, stability, and activity of enzymes from each system, and the overall progress in the field.  
9276477	19970804	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Neutral trehalase Nth1p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encoded by the NTH1 gene is a multiple stress responsive protein.	We have shown previously that expression of the NTH1 gene is increased at heat stress (40 degrees C) both at the mRNA and enzymatic activity levels. This increased expression was correlated to the requirement of the NTH1 gene for recovery after heat shock at 50 degrees C and the presence of stress responsive elements STRE (CCCCT) 3 times in its promoter region [S. Nwaka et al., FEBS Lett. 360 (1995) 286-290; S. Nwaka et al., J. Biol. Chem. 270 (1995) 10193-10198]. We show here that expression of the NTH1 gene and its product, neutral trehalase (Nthlp), are also induced by other stressors such as H2O2, CuSO4, NaAsO2, and cycloheximide (CHX). Heat-induced expression of the NTH1 gene is shown to be accompanied by accumulation of trehalose. In contrast, the chemical stressors which also induce the expression of NTH1 did not lead to accumulation of trehalose under similar conditions. Our data suggest that: (1) heat- and chemical stress-induced expression of neutral trehalase is largely due to de novo protein synthesis, and (2) different mechanisms may control the heat- and chemical stress-induced expression of NTH1 at the transcriptional level. Participation of neutral trehalase (Nth1p) in multiple stress response dependent and independent on trehalose is discussed. 
22200052	20111227	Integr_Biol_(Camb)	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Use of fungal derived polysaccharide-conjugated particles to probe Dectin-1 responses in innate immunity.	The number of life-threatening fungal infections has risen in immunocompromised patients, and identification of the rules that govern an appropriate immune response is essential to develop better diagnostics and targeted therapeutics. The outer cell wall component on pathogenic fungi consists of β-1,3-glucan, and Dectin-1, a pattern recognition receptor present on the cell surface of innate immune cells, binds specifically to this carbohydrate. A barrier in understanding the exact immunological response to pathogen-derived carbohydrate epitopes is the presence of multiple types of carbohydrate moieties on fungal cell walls. To dissect the immunological mechanisms used to recognize pathogens, a system of "fungal like particles" was developed that consisted of polystyrene beads, which mimicked the three dimensional shape of the fungus, coated covalently with purified β-1,3-glucan derived from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The morphology of the β-1,3-glucan layer was examined by immunofluorescence, flow cytometery, and immuno-transmission electron microscopy. The covalent linkages of the β-1,3-glucan to the polystyrene surface were stable after subjecting the beads to detergents. By pre-treating β-1,3-glucan beads with laminarinase, a specific β-1,3-gluconase, the reactivity of the anti-β-1,3-glucan antibody was abrogated in comparison to treatment with proteinase K indicating that the coating of these beads was predominantly β-1,3-glucan. TNF-α was also measured by stimulating bone-marrow derived macrophages with the β-1,3-glucan beads, and showed a dose dependent response compared to soluble β-glucan, insoluble β-1,3-glucan, uncoated beads, and soluble β-1,3-glucan mixed with uncoated beads. Finally, β-1,3-glucan beads were incubated with GFP-Dectin-1 expressing macrophages and imaged using confocal microscopy. β-1,3-beads were taken up within minutes and retained Dectin-1 recruitment to the phagosome as compared to uncoated beads. These data describe a unique fungal-like particle system that will permit immunologists to probe the critical steps in early recognition of pathogen-derived fungal carbohydrate antigens by innate immune cells. 
16348244	19900801	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Effect of Methanobrevibacter smithii on Xylanolytic Activity of Anaerobic Ruminal Fungi.	Three different ruminal anaerobic fungi, Neocallimastix frontalis PNK2, Sphaeromonas communis B7, and Piromonas communis B19, were grown axenically or in coculture with Methanobrevibacter smithii on xylan. N. frontalis and S. communis in monoculture and coculture accumulated xylobiose, xylose, and arabinose in the growth medium; arabinose was not metabolized, but xylobiose and xylose were subsequently used. The transient accumulation of xylose was much less evident in cocultures. Both the rate and extent of xylan utilization were increased by coculturing, and metabolite profiles became acetogenic as a result of interspecies hydrogen transfer; more acetate and less lactate were formed, while formate and hydrogen did not accumulate. For each of the three fungi, there were marked increases in the specific activities of extracellular xylanase (up to fivefold), alpha-l-arabinofuranosidase (up to fivefold), and beta-d-xylosidase (up to sevenfold) upon coculturing. The stimulating effect on fungal enzymes from coculturing with M. smithii was independent of the growth substrate, and the magnitude of the stimulation varied according to the enzymes and the incubation time. For an N. frontalis-M. smithii coculture, the positive stimulation was maintained during an extended (18-day) incubation period, and this affected not only hemicellulolytic enzymes but also polysaccharidase and glycoside hydrolase enzymes that were not involved in xylan breakdown. The specific activity of cell-bound endopeptidase was not increased under the coculture conditions used in this study. The higher enzyme activities in cocultures are discussed in relation to catabolite repression. 
8597538	19951201	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	High-level secretion of hirudin by Hansenula polymorpha--authentic processing of three different preprohirudins.	A DNA sequence coding for a subtype of the hirudin variant HV1 was expressed in the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha from a strongly inducible promoter element derived from a gene of the methanol metabolism pathway. For secretion, the coding sequence was fused to the KEX2 recognition site of three different prepro segments engineered from the MF alpha 1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the glucoamylase (GAM1) gene of Schwanniomyces occidentalis and the gene for a crustacean hyperglycemic hormone from the shore crab Carcinus maenas. In all three cases, correct processing of the precursor molecule and efficient secretion of the mature protein were observed. In fermentations on a 10-1 scale of a transformant strain harbouring a MF alpha 1/hirudin-gene fusion yields in the range of grams per litre could be obtained. The majority of the secreted product was identified as the full-length 65-amino-acid hirudin. Only small amounts of a truncated 63-amino- acid product, frequently observed in S. cerevisiae-based expression systems, could be detected. 
11427240	20010628	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of a thermostable endo-beta-glucanase active on 1,3-1,4-beta-D-glucans from the aerobic fungus talaromyces emersonii CBS 814.70.	A novel endoglucanase active on 1,3-1,4-beta-D-glucans was purified to apparent homogeneity from submerged cultures of the moderately thermophilic aerobic fungus Talaromyces emersonii CBS 814.70. The enzyme is a single subunit glycoprotein with M(r) and pI values of 40.7 +/- 0.3 kDa and 4.4, respectively, and an estimated carbohydrate content of 77% (w/w). The purified beta-glucanase displayed activity over broad ranges of pH and temperature, yielding respective optima values of pH 4.8 and 80 degrees C. This enzyme was markedly thermostable with 15% of the original activity remaining after incubation for 15 min at 100 degrees C. Substrate specificity studies revealed the identity of the enzyme to be a 1,3-1,4-beta-D-glucanase. Identical K(m) values (13.38 mg.ml(-1)) were obtained with lichenan and BBG, while the V(max) value with lichenan (142.9 IU.mg(-1)) was approximately twice the value obtained with BBG (79.3 IU.mg(-1)). Time-course hydrolysis of barley-beta-glucan did not proceed linearly with respect to time indicating an 'endo' or more processive action for the enzyme. HPAEC fractionation of the products of hydrolysis yielded a range of oligosaccharides, with cellobiose, cellotriose and cellotetraose being the predominant oligosaccharide products. 
1320801	19920501	Yeast	D016428 	Development of a strain of Hansenula polymorpha for the efficient expression of guar alpha-galactosidase.	A strain of the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha, A16, has been developed that expresses the guar alpha-galactosidase gene to 22.4 mg/g dry cell weight in chemostat cultures at a dilution rate of 0.1 h(-1). This corresponds to more than 13.1% of soluble cell protein, of which 56-62% is secreted into the medium. The alpha-galactosidase gene was flanked by the promoter and terminator sequences of the H.polymorpha mox gene, which can direct expression of the mox gene itself more than 30% of total cell protein under methanol growth. The expression cassette (pUR3510) based on the Saccharomyces cerevisiae plasmid, YEp13, was integrated into the genome. Such transformants were stable in chemostat cultures and exhibited 100% stability for both alpha-galactosidase+ and leu+ phenotypes. Chemostat cultures produced higher levels of alpha-galactosidase with higher specific productivities expressed as mg alpha-galactosidase g(-1) h(-1) compared to batch cultures. 
15886912	20050512	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Boophilus microplus infection by Beauveria amorpha and Beauveria bassiana: SEM analysis and regulation of subtilisin-like proteases and chitinases.	Beauveria bassiana is a well-known broad-range arthropod pathogen which has been used in biological control of several pest insects and ticks such as Boophilus microplus. Beauveria amorpha has both endophytic and entomopathogenic characteristics, but its capacity for biological control has still not been studied. During the processes of host infection, B. bassiana and B. amorpha produce several hydrolytic extracellular enzymes, including proteases and chitinases, which probably degrade the host cuticle and are suggested to be pathogenicity determinants. To access the role of these enzymes during infection in the tick B. microplus, we analyzed their secretion during fungus growth in single and combined carbon sources, compared to complex substrates such as chitin and B. microplus cuticle. Chitin and tick cuticle-induced chitinase in both fungus and protease was induced only by tick cuticle. SEM analysis of B. amorpha and B. bassiana infecting B. microplus showed apressorium formation during penetration on cattle tick cuticle. 
8243636	19931122	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Amino acid sequence and thermostability of xylanase A from Schizophyllum commune.	The amino acid sequence (197 residues) of xylanase A from the fungus, Schizophyllum commune, was determined by automated analysis of peptides from proteolytic and acid cleavage. The sequence is similar to two Trichoderma xylanases (approximately 56% identical amino acids), but also shows at least 40% identities with xylanases from Bacillus subtilis, B. pumilus and B. circulans. The conserved regions of the enzyme contain only two glutamic acid residues which implicates their possible involvement in catalysis. The disulfide bond in xylanase A is not conserved in this family. In spite of this, the B. subtilis xylanase was found to be more thermostable than xylanase A. 
17186621	19870801	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Spore activation by acetate, propionate and heat in Phycomyces mutants.	Exposure to heat, acetate, or propionate activates the spores of the fungus Phycomyces blakesleeanus and allows them to germinate. Using counterselection with the antibiotic N-glycosyl-polyfungin, seven mutants were isolated on the basis of decreased spore activation by propionate. The nine mutants showed decreased activation by both chemicals and by heat, increased heat lethality, and altered patterns of trehalase activation. These and other observations indicate that spore activation by the three agents and spore death by heat are mediated by the same cellular component(s), which is probably involved in the regulation of cyclic AMP concentration. 
10380801	19990625	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	A distinct member of the basic (class I) chitinase gene family in potato is specifically expressed in epidermal cells.	We have isolated cDNA clones encoding class I chitinase (ChtC) from potato leaves which share a high degree of nucleotide and amino acid sequence similarity to other, previously described basic (class I) chitinases (ChtB) from potato. Despite this similarity, characteristic features distinguish ChtC from ChtB, including an extended proline-rich linker region between the hevein and catalytic domains and presence of a potential glycosylation site (NDT) in the deduced protein. These differences are in accordance with the properties of purified chitinase C which is glycosylated and hence has a higher molecular mass in comparison to chitinase B. In contrast to the coding sequences, the 3'-untranslated regions of ChtC and ChtB exhibited a low degree of similarity, which allowed us to generate gene-specific probes to study the genomic organization and expression of both types of gene. Genomic DNA blots suggest that ChtC and ChtB are each encoded by one or two genes per haploid genome. RNA blot analysis showed that in healthy potato plants ChtC mRNA is most abundant in young leaves, the organs which also contain high levels of chitinase C. By contrast, ChtB mRNA abundance is highest in old leaves, which accumulate chitinase B. By in situ RNA hybridization with gene-specific probes we could demonstrate that ChtC mRNA in leaves is restricted to epidermal cells, whereas ChtB mRNA showed no distinct pattern of cell-type-specific localization. Infection of potato leaves with Phytophthora infestans, or treatment with fungal elicitor, ethylene, or wounding resulted in accumulation of both ChtC and ChtB mRNAs; however, for ChtC, in contrast to ChtB, no corresponding accumulation of the encoded protein could be detected, suggesting a post-transcriptional mechanism of regulation. Salicylic acid treatment did not induce accumulation of either mRNA. The possible functional implications of these findings for pathogen defence and developmental processes are discussed. 
16272431	20051108	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Endoplasmic reticulum glucosidase II is required for pathogenicity of Ustilago maydis.	We identified a nonpathogenic strain of Ustilago maydis by tagging mutagenesis. The affected gene, glucosidase1 (gas1), displays similarity to catalytic alpha-subunits of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) glucosidase II. We have shown that Gas1 localizes to the ER and complements the temperature-sensitive phenotype of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant lacking ER glucosidase II. gas1 deletion mutants were normal in growth and mating but were more sensitive to calcofluor and tunicamycin. Mutant infection hyphae displayed significant alterations in the distribution of cell wall material and were able to form appressoria and penetrate the plant surface but arrested growth in the epidermal cell layer. Electron microscopy analysis revealed that the plant-fungal interface between mutant hyphae and the plant plasma membrane was altered compared with the interface of penetrating wild-type hyphae. This may indicate that gas1 mutants provoke a plant response. 
1657419	19910901	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Polymeric genes MEL8, MEL9 and MEL10--new members of alpha-galactosidase gene family in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We used a combination of genetic hybridization analysis and electrokaryotyping with radioactively labelled MEL1 gene probe hybridization to isolate and identify seven polymeric genes for the fermentation of melibiose in strain CBS 5378 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (syn. norbensis). Four of the MEL genes, i.e. MEL3, MEL4, MEL6 and MEL7, were allelic to those found in S. cerevisiae strain CBS 4411 (syn. S. oleaginosus) whereas three genes, i.e. MEL8, MEL9 and MEL10 occupied new loci. Electrokaryotyping showed that all seven MEL genes in CBS 5378 were located on different chromosomes. The new MEL8, MEL9 and MEL10 genes were found on chromosomes XV, X/XIV and XII, respectively. 
19099459	20081223	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Mathematical modeling of the development of antioxidant activity in soybeans fermented with Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus awamori in the solid state.	The kinetics of the development fungal growth, beta-glucosidase activity, total phenolics, and DPPH scavenging in soybeans fermented with Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus awamori were studied over an 8-day incubation period. Modified logistic equations were then used to describe the experimental fermentation profiles. In all cases the models were consistent and the parametric estimations were statistically significant. The predicted values have high coefficients of linear correlation with the experimental results, and the kinetic parameters obtained show that A. oryzae grows more rapidly and produces more antioxidant activity than A. awamori. 
12920506	20030816	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 D013486 	Culture conditions affecting biodegradation components of the brown-rot fungus Gloeophyllum trabeum.	To determine the liquid culture conditions under which the wood-degrading system of the brown-rot fungus Gloeophyllum trabeum is expressed, enzymes and metabolites from liquid and solid substrate cultures were characterized. Enzymes were analyzed by 2-D gel electrophoresis and also assayed. Growth conditions were varied by using liquid media containing: (1) low carbon, low nitrogen, (2) low carbon, high nitrogen, (3) high carbon, low nitrogen, or (4) high carbon, high nitrogen. The protein arrays expressed under the four conditions were very similar, and endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (detected by 2-D gels) activity along with beta-glucosidase, xylanase, and NADH/quinone oxidoreductase activities were detected. Maximal expression of the hydrolytic enzymes was observed in high carbon/high nitrogen medium, whereas the highest oxidoreductase activity was in the high carbon low nitrogen medium. Oxalate and 2,5-dimethoxybenzoquinone were detected under all culture conditions, with higher production in high carbon/low nitrogen medium. Cultures grown in this medium also yielded the highest rate of hydroxylation of p-hydroxybenzoic acid, yielding protocatechuic acid, a product of hydroxyl radical attack. 
23404363	20130214	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Engineered thermostable fungal Cel6A and Cel7A cellobiohydrolases hydrolyze cellulose efficiently at elevated temperatures.	Thermostability is an important feature in industrial enzymes: it increases biocatalyst lifetime and enables reactions at higher temperatures, where faster rates and other advantages ultimately reduce the cost of biocatalysis. Here we report the thermostabilization of a chimeric fungal family 6 cellobiohydrolase (HJPlus) by directed evolution using random mutagenesis and recombination of beneficial mutations. Thermostable variant 3C6P has a half-life of 280 min at 75°C and a T(50) of 80.1°C, a ~15°C increase over the thermostable Cel6A from Humicola insolens (HiCel6A) and a ~20°C increase over that from Hypocrea jecorina (HjCel6A). Most of the mutations also stabilize the less-stable HjCel6A, the wild-type Cel6A closest in sequence to 3C6P. During a 60-h Avicel hydrolysis, 3C6P released 2.4 times more cellobiose equivalents at its optimum temperature (T(opt)) of 75°C than HiCel6A at its T(opt) of 60°C. The total cellobiose equivalents released by HiCel6A at 60°C after 60 h is equivalent to the total released by 3C6P at 75°C after ~6 h, a 10-fold reduction in hydrolysis time. A binary mixture of thermostable Cel6A and Cel7A hydrolyzes Avicel synergistically and released 1.8 times more cellobiose equivalents than the wild-type mixture, both mixtures assessed at their respective T(opt). Crystal structures of HJPlus and 3C6P, determined at 1.5 and 1.2 Å resolution, indicate that the stabilization comes from improved hydrophobic interactions and restricted loop conformations by introduced proline residues. 
19758745	20090918	J._Environ._Manage.	D016428 D013485 	Pesticide tolerance of Paenibacillus sp. D1 and its chitinase.	Excessive use of pesticides in agriculture has led to several problems pertaining to loss of soil fertility and environmental degradation. Biological control agents offer the best alternative to reduce use of toxic pesticides. Paenibacillus sp. D1 isolated from the effluent treatment plant of a seafood processing industry exhibited broad spectrum tolerance towards a number of pesticides at concentrations higher than recommended for field applications. The isolate showed enhanced growth and chitinase production in the presence of some protectant fungicides. None of the tested demethylase inhibitor (DMI) fungicides inhibited growth and chitinase production except triadimefon. The isolate was also tolerant to most commonly used insecticides belonging to the organophosphate, carbamate and cyclodiene organochloride classes. Chitinase of Paenibacillus sp. D1 was found to be more tolerant than the organism itself and was highly stable in the presence of pesticides at the temperature under field conditions in Gujarat, India, i.e. 40 degrees C. This was suggestive of its potential in integrated pest management (IPM) to significantly reduce the use of harmful chemicals. To our knowledge this is the first extensive study on pesticide tolerance of the Paenibacillus species and its chitinase. 
14593866	20031105	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Isolation and characterisation of chitosanase from Bacillus sp. 739 strain].	The specific nature of the chitosanase activity of the strain Bacillus sp. 739 has been determined. Maximum enzyme activity was observed in a medium containing the biomass of the fruiting bodies of the fungus Macrolepiota procera. The chitosanase was purified to homogeneity using chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex A-50 and Toyopearl HW-50. The molecular weight of the enzyme, assessed by electrophoresis (the Laemmli procedure) approximated 46 kDa. Temperature and pH optima of the purified chitosanase were in the ranges 45-55 degrees C and 6.0-6.5, respectively. Time to half-maximum inactivation of the enzyme at 50 degrees C was equal to 1 h. With colloidal chitosan as the substrate, the value of K(M) of the purified chitosanase was equal to 25 mg/ml. The enzyme also exhibited a weak ability to hydrolyze colloidal chitin. 
8221928	19930901	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and sequence analysis of the glucoamylase gene of Neurospora crassa.	A 1.0-kb DNA fragment, corresponding to an internal region of the Neurospora crassa glucoamylase gene, gla-1, was generated from genomic DNA by the polymerase chain reaction, using oligonucleotide primers which had been deduced from the known N-terminal amino-acid sequence or from consensus regions within the aligned amino-acid sequences of other fungal glucoamylases. The fragment was used to screen an N. crassa genomic DNA library. One clone contained the gene together with flanking regions and its sequence was determined. The gene was found to code for a preproprotein of 626 amino acids, 35 of which constitute a signal and propeptide region. The protein and the gene are compared with corresponding sequences in other fungi. 
7049699	19820601	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Purification and partial characterization of two acidic proteases from the white-rot fungus Sporotrichum pulverulentum.	Two acidic proteases from the white-rot fungus Sporotrichum pulverulentum have been purified and partially characterized. The enzymes were purified in four steps, protease I 152-fold and protease II 127-fold. The purity of the enzymes was investigated by analytical isoelectric focusing and by dodecylsulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The isoelectric points of protease I and protease II were at pH 4.7 and 4.2 respectively. The molecular weights were 28,000 and 26,000 and the pH optima 5.0 and 5.2. Both enzymes were inhibited by heavy metal ions such as Ag+, Hg2+ and to some extent also by Cu2+. Partial inhibition was also observed with EDTA and alpha, alpha'-dipyridyl. The specificities of protease I and II were investigated using human fibrinopeptide A as substrate. Protease I splits off the arginine in the C-terminal position, while protease II splits at the carboxyl side of both Phe-8 and Leu-9 in fibrinopeptide A. A physiological effect of the two proteases has also been demonstrated. Thus, if a culture solution from S. pulverulentum grown on cellulose was treated with the individual proteases or a mixture of the enzymes a considerable increase in endo-1,4-beta-glucanase activity was obtained. It may be that the endo-glucanases are produced in a zymogenic form and activated by the proteases. However, other explanations for the phenomenon are also possible. 
23069603	20121017	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	The promoting effects of manganese on biological pretreatment with Irpex lacteus and enzymatic hydrolysis of corn stover.	The effect of metal ions on biological pretreatment was evaluated for improving subsequent enzymatic hydrolysis. Results showed that the efficiency of fungal pretreatment was greatly improved with manganese supplement in biomass. After enzymatic hydrolysis of 28-d pretreated corn stover, maximum glucose yield was 308.98 mg/g corn stover with manganese supplement, which increased by 61.39% as compared to the conventional fungal pretreatment. Furthermore, manganese also enhanced the production of ethanol, corresponding to a high ethanol conversion (83.39%). Manganese greatly improved the delignification of Irpex lacteus specially. Correspondingly, the efficiency of saccharification and fermentation was closely related to the removal of lignin. This study showed a promising effect of manganese on fungal pretreatment and the production of biofuels. 
18051606	20071207	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Plant growth-promoting potential of endophytic bacteria isolated from roots of coastal sand dune plants.	Endophytic bacteria associated with the roots of coastal sand dune plants were isolated, taxonomically characterized, and tested for their plant growth-promoting activities. Ninety-one endophytic bacterial isolates were collected and assigned to 17 different genera of 6 major bacterial phyla based on partial 16S rDNA sequence analyses. Gammaproteobacteria represented the majority of the isolates (65.9%), and members of Pseudomonas constituted 49.5% of the total isolates. When testing for antagonism towards plant pathogenic fungi, 25 strains were antagonistic towards Rhizoctonia solani, 57 strains were antagonistic towards Pythium ultimum, 53 strains were antagonistic towards Fusarium oxysporum, and 41 strains were antagonistic towards Botrytis cinerea. Seven strains were shown to produce indole acetic acid (IAA), 33 to produce siderophores, 23 to produce protease, 37 to produce pectinase, and 38 to produce chitinase. The broadest spectra of activities were observed among the Pseudomonas strains, indicating outstanding plant growth-promoting potential. The isolates from C. kobomugi and M. sibirica also exhibited good plant growth-promoting potential. The correlations among individual plant growth-promoting activities were examined using phi coefficients, and the resulting data indicated that the production of protease, pectinase, chitinase, and siderophores was highly related. 
16575564	20060401	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Ethanol fermentation from lignocellulosic hydrolysate by a recombinant xylose- and cellooligosaccharide-assimilating yeast strain.	The sulfuric acid hydrolysate of lignocellulosic biomass, such as wood chips, from the forest industry is an important material for fuel bioethanol production. In this study, we constructed a recombinant yeast strain that can ferment xylose and cellooligosaccharides by integrating genes for the intercellular expressions of xylose reductase and xylitol dehydrogenase from Pichia stipitis, and xylulokinase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and a gene for displaying beta-glucosidase from Aspergillus acleatus on the cell surface. In the fermentation of the sulfuric acid hydrolysate of wood chips, xylose and cellooligosaccharides were completely fermented after 36 h by the recombinant strain, and then about 30 g/l ethanol was produced from 73 g/l total sugar added at the beginning. In this case, the ethanol yield of this recombinant yeast was much higher than that of the control yeast. These results demonstrate that the fermentation of the lignocellulose hydrolysate is performed efficiently by the recombinant Saccharomyces strain with abilities for xylose assimilation and cellooligosaccharide degradation. 
19134548	20090113	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparative characterization of L-lactic acid-producing thermotolerant Rhizopus fungi.	Acid-producing Rhizopus fungi from loog-pang, a traditional Thai fermented food, was screened to investigate its potential for use in industrial lactic acid production from starch. A thermotolerant strain, TISTR 3518, was isolated and characterized by its morphological, physiological, genetic and fermentation properties, and compared with its mesophilic isolates, TISTR 3514 and TISTR 3523. TISTR 3518 was characterized by shorter sporangiophores and smaller sporangia than the other isolates; however, apparent differences between the mesophilic isolates and the strain could not be clarified. Moreover, TISTR 3518 grew at 45 degrees C, whereas the others did not. The three isolates showed different profiles of oligosaccharide assimilation and organic acid production. Their rDNA ITS sequences indicated that TISTR 3518 is a strain of Rhizopus microsporus, and TISTR 3514 and TISTR 3523 are strains of Rhizopus oryzae. TISTR 3523 and TISTR 3518 mainly formed L-lactic acid from glucose, while TISTR 3514 primarily formed fumaric acid. Under thermotolerant conditions, R. microsporus TISTR 3518 showed higher glucoamylase activity than the others, suggesting this enzyme from TISTR 3518 is more thermostable than that from TISTR 3523. The strain formed higher amounts of L-lactic acid from starch at 40 degrees C compared to R. oryzae TISTR 3523. This is the first report on the production of optically active L-lactic acid from starch by a thermotolerant fungus and could potentially provide a good tool for transforming biomass resources to chemical materials. 
12715256	20030426	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Optimization of phytase production by solid substrate fermentation.	The production of phytase by three feed-grade filamentous fungi ( Aspergillus ficuum NRRL 3135, Mucor racemosus NRRL 1994 and Rhizopus oligosporus NRRL 5905) on four commonly used natural feed ingredients (canola meal, cracked corn, soybean meal, wheat bran) was studied in solid substrate fermentation (SSF). A. ficuum NRRL 3135 had the highest yield [15 IU phytase activity/g dry matter (DM)] on wheat bran. By optimizing the supplementation of wheat bran with starch and (NH(4))(2)SO(4), phytase production increased to 25 IU/g DM. Optimization was carried out by Plackett-Burman and central composite experimental designs. Using optimized medium, phytase, phosphatase, alpha-amylase and xylanase production by A. ficuum NRRL 3135 was studied in Erlenmeyer flask and tray SSF. By scaling up SSF from flasks to stationary trays, activities of 20 IU phytase activity/g DM were reproducibly obtained. 
23307835	20130112	FASEB_J.	D016428 D013485 	The role of the bacterial community in the nutritional ecology of the bulb mite Rhizoglyphus robini (Acari: Astigmata: Acaridae).	The biology of many arthropods can only be understood when their associated microbiome is considered. The nutritional requirements of the bulb mite Rhizoglyphus robini Claparede (Acari: Astigmata: Acaridae) in the laboratory have been shown to be very easily satisfied, and in the field the mites prefer fungus-infected over uninfected plants. To test whether symbiotic bacteria facilitate the survival of R. robini on a temporarily nutritionally unbalanced diet, we investigated the composition of its microbiome. Using 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA gene fragments, 3 genera were found to dominate the bacterial community: Myroides (41.4%), Serratia (11.4%), and Alcaligenes (4.5%); the latter 2 are known to include chitinase-producing species. Laboratory experiments demonstrated that mite fecundity is significantly higher (2 times) on fungus than on controls (sterilized potato dextrose agar and filter paper). Also, when mite homogenate was applied to a chitin layer, the halo produced through degradation was clearly visible, while the saline control did not produce a halo. We thus concluded that R. robini utilizes fungal chitin, at least to a certain extent, as a food source with the help of its associated bacteria. This information supports the general concept of multigenome organisms and the involvement of bacteria in the mite's nutritional ecology. 
7005623	19800101	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	A defect in carbon catabolite repression associated with uncontrollable and excessive maltose uptake.	The previously isolated recessive mutant allele hex2-3 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae caused a defect in carbon catabolite repression of maltase, invertase, malate dehydrogenase, and respiration but at the same time led to an extreme sensitivity to maltose (Zimmerman and Scheel, 1977; Entian and Zimmermann, 1980). Addition of maltose to a growing culture of a hex2-3 mutant resulted within 60 to 90 min in an inhibition of growth, glycolysis, and de novo protein synthesis. This was not accompanied by any abnormal levels of glycolysis metabolites or glycolytic enzyme activities. However, inhibitory effects coincided with a dramatic increase in intracellular glucose up to 150 mM relative to cell water as opposed to 2.5 mM in wild-type cells. This abnormal behavior is interpreted as a result of an uncontrolled maltose uptake in hex2 mutants, which in combination with increasing maltase activity results in an accumulation of intracellular glucose. Obviously the amount of available glucose surpassed glycolytic capacity in hex2 mutants. Properties of mutant alleles hex2 and hex1 (see Entian and Zimmermann, 1980) clearly show, that specific gene functions are involved in adapting the rate of sugar uptake into the cell to the actual glycolytic capacity. 
15546421	20041118	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of a lactic acid bacterium and yeast consortium from a fermented material of Ulva spp. (Chlorophyta).	Microbiota in a fermented culture of Ulva spp. was examined with the objective to characterize the type of fermentation and to obtain starter microbes for performing seaweed fermentation. Fermented Ulva spp. cultures which were obtained and transferred in a laboratory were examined for their microbiota. With phenotypic characterization and phylogenetic analysis based on rRNA gene nucleotide sequences, the predominant micro-organisms were identified as Lactobacillus brevis, Debaryomyces hanseni var. hansenii, and a Candida zeylanoides-related specimen, suggesting that the observed fermentation can be categorized to lactic acid and ethanol fermentation. Inoculating the individually cultured cell suspensions of the three kinds of micro-organisms with cellulase induced the fermentation in various kinds of seaweed. A microbial consortium composed of a lactic acid bacterium, L. brevis, and yeasts, D. hansenii and a C. zeylanoides-related specimen, were predominant in a fermented culture of Ulva spp. Lactic acid and ethanol fermentation could be induced in various kinds of seaweed by adding this microbial consortium along with cellulase. This is the first report of lactic acid and ethanol fermentation in seaweed, which is expected to provide a new material for food and dietary applications. 
10959559	20000826	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Halotolerance of the yeast Arxula adeninivorans LS3.	The non-pathogenic, dimorphic, ascomycetous yeast Arxula adeninivorans LS3 is halotolerant. It can grow in a minimal medium containing up to 20% NaCl. The growth parameters are only weakly influenced by 10% NaCl. However, NaCl in a concentration higher than 10% causes a decrease in the specific growth rate, a longer adaptation phase and a lower cell count in the stationary growth phase. Concentrations of glycerol and trehalose, which differed 100-fold in magnitude in a salt free medium, are also influenced differently by salt. NaCl induces accumulation of intracellular glycerol in exponentially growing cells but a reduced concentration of intracellular trehalose in stationary cells. Transcripts of the genes ARFC3, encoding a component of the replication factor C, and GAA, encoding a secretory glucoamylase, can be detected only in cells cultured in media with NaCl concentrations below 10%. Furthermore, NaCl in high concentration reduces the level of secreted proteins including glucoamylase end invertase. 
15146196	20040518	Nat._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Fusion proteins comprising a Fusarium-specific antibody linked to antifungal peptides protect plants against a fungal pathogen.	In planta expression of recombinant antibodies recognizing pathogen-specific antigens has been proposed as a strategy for crop protection. We report the expression of fusion proteins comprising a Fusarium-specific recombinant antibody linked to one of three antifungal peptides (AFPs) as a method for protecting plants against fungal diseases. A chicken-derived single-chain antibody specific to antigens displayed on the Fusarium cell surface was isolated from a pooled immunocompetent phage display library. This recombinant antibody inhibited fungal growth in vitro when fused to any of the three AFPs. Expression of the fusion proteins in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants conferred high levels of protection against Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. matthiolae, whereas plants expressing either the fungus-specific antibody or AFPs alone exhibited only moderate resistance. Our results demonstrate that antibody fusion proteins may be used as effective and versatile tools for the protection of crop plants against fungal infection. 
23915965	20130807	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	The production and characterization of a new active lipase from Acremonium alcalophilum using a plant bioreactor.	Microorganisms are the most proficient decomposers in nature, using secreted enzymes in the hydrolysis of lignocellulose. As such, they present the most abundant source for discovery of new enzymes. Acremonium alcalophilum is the only known cellulolytic fungus that thrives in alkaline conditions and can be cultured readily in the laboratory. Its optimal conditions for growth are 30°C and pH 9.0-9.2. The genome sequence of Acremonium alcalophilum has revealed a large number of genes encoding biomass-degrading enzymes. Among these enzymes, lipases are interesting because of several industrial applications including biofuels, detergent, food processing and textile industries. We identified a lipA gene in the genome sequence of Acremonium alcalophilum, encoding a protein with a predicted lipase domain with weak sequence identity to characterized enzymes. Unusually, the predicted lipase displays ≈ 30% amino acid sequence identity to both feruloyl esterase and lipase of Aspergillus niger. LipA, when transiently produced in Nicotiana benthamiana, accumulated to over 9% of total soluble protein. Plant-produced recombinant LipA is active towards p-nitrophenol esters of various carbon chain lengths with peak activity on medium-chain fatty acid (C8). The enzyme is also highly active on xylose tetra-acetate and oat spelt xylan. These results suggests that LipA is a novel lipolytic enzyme that possesses both lipase and acetylxylan esterase activity. We determined that LipA is a glycoprotein with pH and temperature optima at 8.0 and 40°C, respectively. Besides being the first heterologous expression and characterization of a gene coding for a lipase from A. alcalophilum, this report shows that LipA is very versatile exhibiting both acetylxylan esterase and lipase activities potentially useful for diverse industry sectors, and that tobacco is a suitable bioreactor for producing fungal proteins. 
6436496	19841005	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013487 	Induction of the yeast alpha-specific STE3 gene by the peptide pheromone a-factor.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae exhibits two mating types, a and alpha. Efficient mating of a and alpha cells requires the action of peptide pheromones secreted by each cell type. For example, a cells secrete a-factor, which alters the physiology of alpha cells, thereby preparing those cells for mating. To investigate the mechanism by which the pheromones act on the target cells, we have examined the effect of a-factor on expression of the STE3 gene, a gene which is required for mating by alpha cells and which is expressed only in alpha cells. We have monitored STE3 expression by two assays: RNA production from the chromosomal STE3 locus and beta-galactosidase activity produced from a plasmid-borne STE3-lacZ gene fusion. By both assays we show that a-factor induces a rapid increase in STE3 expression. Induction of STE3 RNA occurs even if protein synthesis is blocked by cycloheximide. Using temperature-sensitive cell division cycle mutants, we have also shown that induction occurs in cells arrested at several discrete positions in the cell cycle. These results demonstrate (1) that induction of STE3 expression by a-factor is a primary response to the pheromone, and (2) that alpha cells are capable of responding to a-factor regardless of their position in the cell cycle. 
23489323	20130316	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Taxonomic and functional diversity of Streptomyces in a forest soil.	In this work we report the isolation and the characterization of 79 Streptomyces isolates from a French forest soil. The 16S rRNA gene phylogeny indicated that a great diversity of Streptomyces was present in this soil, with at least nine different and potentially new species. Growth plate assays showed that most Streptomyces lineages exhibit cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic capacities and potentially participate in wood decomposition. Molecular screening for a specific hydrogenase also indicated a widespread potential for atmospheric H2 uptake. Co-culture experiments with representative strains showed antagonistic effects between Streptomyces of the same population and between Streptomyces and various fungi. Interestingly, in certain conditions, growth promotion of some fungi also occurred. We conclude that in forest soil, Streptomyces populations exhibit many important functions involved in different biogeochemical cycles and also influence the structure of soil microbial communities. 
6878208	19830501	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Fractionation of the cellulase complex of the fungus Aspergillus terreus].	A procedure for isolating a complex of extracellular cellulases from the Aspergillus terreus culture liquid using SP-Sephadex C-50 has been developed. Enzymatically and electrophoretically homogeneous preparations of cellobiase I and cellobiase II have been obtained. By means of gel-filtration their molecular weights have been estimated to be 140,000 and 67,000. Cellobiase I consists of five and cellobiase II of two polypeptide chains. Three cellulases with various ratios of endoglucanase and exoglucosidase activities have been prepared. Using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate, their molecular weights have been found to be 11,600; 10,900 and 11,200. 
3909967	19851001	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Butanediol production from cellulose and hemicellulose by Klebsiella pneumoniae grown in sequential coculture with Trichoderma harzianum.	The bioconversion of cellulose and hemicellulose substrates to 2,3-butanediol by a sequential coculture approach was investigated with the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma harzianum E58 and the fermentative bacterium Klebsiella pneumoniae. Vogel medium optimal for the production of the cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes of the fungus was found to be inhibitory to butanediol fermentation. This inhibition appeared to be due to a synergistic effect of various ingredients, particularly the salts, present in the fungal medium. The removal or replacement of such ingredients from Vogel medium led to the relief of fermentation inhibition, but the treatments also resulted in a significant decrease in fungal enzyme production. Resting cells of K. pneumoniae could be used for butanediol production in the fungal medium, indicating that the inhibitory effect on solvent production under such conditions was due to the indirect result of growth inhibition of the bacterial cells. The resting-cell approach could be combined with a fed-batch system for the direct conversion of 8 to 10% (wt/vol) of Solka-Floc or aspenwood xylan to butanediol at over 30% of the theoretical conversion efficiencies. 
23209441	20121205	PLoS_Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	The genomes of the fungal plant pathogens Cladosporium fulvum and Dothistroma septosporum reveal adaptation to different hosts and lifestyles but also signatures of common ancestry.	We sequenced and compared the genomes of the Dothideomycete fungal plant pathogens Cladosporium fulvum (Cfu) (syn. Passalora fulva) and Dothistroma septosporum (Dse) that are closely related phylogenetically, but have different lifestyles and hosts. Although both fungi grow extracellularly in close contact with host mesophyll cells, Cfu is a biotroph infecting tomato, while Dse is a hemibiotroph infecting pine. The genomes of these fungi have a similar set of genes (70% of gene content in both genomes are homologs), but differ significantly in size (Cfu >61.1-Mb; Dse 31.2-Mb), which is mainly due to the difference in repeat content (47.2% in Cfu versus 3.2% in Dse). Recent adaptation to different lifestyles and hosts is suggested by diverged sets of genes. Cfu contains an α-tomatinase gene that we predict might be required for detoxification of tomatine, while this gene is absent in Dse. Many genes encoding secreted proteins are unique to each species and the repeat-rich areas in Cfu are enriched for these species-specific genes. In contrast, conserved genes suggest common host ancestry. Homologs of Cfu effector genes, including Ecp2 and Avr4, are present in Dse and induce a Cf-Ecp2- and Cf-4-mediated hypersensitive response, respectively. Strikingly, genes involved in production of the toxin dothistromin, a likely virulence factor for Dse, are conserved in Cfu, but their expression differs markedly with essentially no expression by Cfu in planta. Likewise, Cfu has a carbohydrate-degrading enzyme catalog that is more similar to that of necrotrophs or hemibiotrophs and a larger pectinolytic gene arsenal than Dse, but many of these genes are not expressed in planta or are pseudogenized. Overall, comparison of their genomes suggests that these closely related plant pathogens had a common ancestral host but since adapted to different hosts and lifestyles by a combination of differentiated gene content, pseudogenization, and gene regulation. 
22783085	20120712	Mycobiology	D016428 	Evaluation of ten wild nigerian mushrooms for amylase and cellulase activities.	Amylases and cellulases are important enzymes that can be utilized for various biological activities. Ten different wild Nigerian mushrooms (Agaricus blazei, Agaricus sp., Corilopsis occidentalis, Coriolus versicolor, Termitomyces clypeatus, Termitomyces globulus, Pleurotus tuber-regium, Podoscypha bolleana, Pogonomyces hydnoides, and Nothopanus hygrophanus) were assayed for production of these secondary metabolites. The results revealed that most of the tested wild fungi demonstrated very good amylase and cellulase activities. With the incorporation of carboxymethyl-cellulose (a carbon source) into the culture medium, Agaricus blazei had the highest amylolytic activity of 0.60 unit/mL (at 25℃, pH 6.8). This was followed in order by P. tuber-regium and Agaricus sp. with 0.42 and 0.39 unit/mL, respectively (p ≤ 0.05). Maltose and sucrose supplementation into the submerged liquid medium made N. hygrophanus and P. hydnoides to exhibit very low amylase activities of 0.09 and 0.11 unit/mL, respectively. Introducing peptone (an organic nitrogen source) into the basal medium enhanced the ability of C. versicolor to produce a cellulase value of 0.74 unit/mL. Other organic nitrogen sources that supported good cellulase activities were yeast extract and urea. Sodium nitrate (inorganic nitrogen source) generally inhibited cellulase production in all mushrooms. The best carbon source was carboxymethyl-cellulose, which promoted very high cellulase activity of 0.67 unit/mL in C. versicolor, which was followed in order by P. tuber-regium, T. chypeatus, and C. occidentalis (p ≤ 0.05). Sucrose was the poorest carbon compound, supporting the lowest values of 0.01, 0.01, and 0.14 unit/mL in P. hydnoides, A. blazei, and Agaricus sp., respectively. 
1630461	19920811	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	The N-terminal 96 residues of MCM1, a regulator of cell type-specific genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, are sufficient for DNA binding, transcription activation, and interaction with alpha 1.	MCM1 performs several functions necessary for its role in regulating cell type-specific gene expression in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae: DNA binding, transcription activation, and interaction with coregulatory proteins such as alpha 1. We analyzed a set of MCM1 deletion derivatives using in vivo reporter gene assays and in vitro DNA-binding studies to determine which regions of MCM1 are important for its various activities. We also analyzed a set of LexA-MCM1 hybrids to examine the ability of different segments of MCM1 to activate transcription independent of MCM1's DNA-binding function. The first third of MCM1 [MCM1(1-96)], which includes an 80-residue segment homologous to the mammalian serum response factor, was sufficient for high-affinity DNA binding, for activation of reporter gene expression, and for interaction with alpha 1 in vitro and in vivo. However, the ability of MCM1(1-96) to activate transcription and to interact with alpha 1 was somewhat reduced compared with wild-type MCM1 [MCM1(1-286)]. Optimal interaction with alpha 1 required residues 99 to 117, in which 18 of 19 amino acids are acidic in character. Optimal transcription activation required a segment from residues 188 to 286, in which 50% of the amino acids are glutamine. Deletion of this segment from MCM1 reduced expression of reporter genes by about twofold. Moreover, LexA-MCM1 hybrids containing this segment were able to activate expression of reporter genes that rely on LexA binding sites as potential upstream activation sequences. Thus, glutamine-rich regions may contribute to the activation function of yeast transcription activators, as has been suggested for glutamine-rich mammalian proteins such as Sp1. 
9608522	19980603	Microbiologia	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Distribution of the trehalase activation response and the regulatory trehalase gene among yeast species.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae and other yeasts the activity of regulatory trehalases increases in response to the addition of glucose and to thermal changes in the extracellular medium. We have performed an screening on the extent of this response among different representative yeast species and the results show that this ability is displayed only by a few members of the Saccharomycetaceae family. However, all yeasts examined contain a gene related to that coding for regulatory trehalase in S. cerevisiae. This finding reveals that the operational distinction between regulatory and nonregulatory trehalase in yeasts is not a property of the enzyme by itself but relays on the expression of accompanying mechanisms able to modulate trehalase activity. 
3006051	19860301	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Evidence the yeast STE3 gene encodes a receptor for the peptide pheromone a factor: gene sequence and implications for the structure of the presumed receptor.	Haploid yeast cells of the a mating type secrete a peptide pheromone, a factor, which acts on cells of the alpha mating type to prepare them for conjugation. We show that the STE3 gene, which is required for mating only by alpha cells and is transcribed only in alpha cells, likely encodes a cell-surface receptor for a factor. This view is based on three findings. First, wild-type Ste3 product is required for response to the pheromone: mutants with any one of five different ste3 mutations are unresponsive to a factor. Second, a hybrid Ste3-beta-galactosidase protein encoded by a STE3-lacZ gene fusion fractionates to the particulate fraction of yeast cell extracts, suggesting that Ste3 is a membrane protein. Finally, the DNA sequence of STE3, which we report here, encodes a protein of 470 amino acid residues that contains seven distinct hydrophobic segments of sufficient length to span a lipid bilayer. 
17145041	20061206	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 D013485 	Biochemical and kinetic analysis of the GH3 family beta-xylosidase from Aspergillus awamori X-100.	The beta-xylosidase from Aspergillus awamori X-100 belonging to the family 3 glycoside hydrolase revealed a distinctive transglycosylating ability to produce xylooligosaccharides with degree of polymerization more than 7. In order to explain this fact, the enzyme has been subjected to the detailed biochemical study. The enzymatic hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl beta-D-xylopyranoside was found to occur with overall retention of substrate anomeric configuration suggesting cleavage of xylosidic bonds through a double-displacement mechanism. Kinetic study with aryl beta-xylopyranosides substrates, in which leaving group pK(a)s were in the range of 3.96-10.32, revealed monotonic function of log(k(cat)) and no correlation of log(k(cat)/Km) versus pKa values indicating deglycosylation as a rate-limiting step for the enzymatic hydrolysis. The classical bell-shaped pH dependence of k(cat)/Km indicated two ionizable groups in the beta-xylosidase active site with apparent pKa values of 2.2 and 6.4. The kinetic parameters of hydrolysis, Km and k(cat), of p-nitrophenyl beta-D-1,4-xylooligosaccharides were very close to those for hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside. Increase of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside concentration up to 80 mM led to increasing of the reaction velocity resulting in k(cat)(app)=81 s(-1). Addition of alpha-methyl D-xylopyranoside to the reaction mixture at high concentration of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside (50 mM) caused an acceleration of the beta-xylosidase-catalyzed reactions and appearance of a new transglycosylation product, alpha-methyl D-xylopyranosyl-1,4-beta-D-xylopyranoside, that was identified by 1H NMR spectroscopy. The kinetic model suggested for the enzymatic reaction was consistent with the results obtained. 
7620813	19950101	Acta_Microbiol_Immunol_Hung	D016428 D013485 	Hybrid process for ethanol production from rice straw.	A hybrid process for the fermentation of rice straw hydrolysates into ethanol was designed to simultaneously utilize cellulose and hemicellulose fractions of the agro-residue. The process involved dilute acid hydrolysis (for obtaining C-5 sugars) followed by enzymatic saccharification of cellulose enriched fraction with crude cellulase produced by mixed cultures of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 and Aspergillus ochraceus IMI 317911. The fermentation medium containing acid and enzymatic hydrolysate mixture of pentoses and hexoses monomers was fermented with yeast coculture of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pachysolen tannophilus resulting in 295.0 ml ethanol/kg of rice straw. The hybrid process resulted in an efficient utilization of both cellulosic and hemicellulosic components of the rice straw for ethanol production. 
16368977	20051222	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D052061 	Identification of a new spore wall protein from Encephalitozoon cuniculi.	Microsporidia form environmentally resistant spores that are critical for their host-to-host transmission and persistence in the environment. The spore walls of these organisms are composed of two layers, the exospore and the endospore. Two spore wall proteins (SWP1 and SWP2) have been previously identified in members of the Encephalitozoonidae family. These proteins localize to the exospore. The endospore is known to contain chitin, and a putative glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored chitin deacetylase has been localized to the plasmalemma-endospore interface. Using proteomic techniques, we have identified a new spore wall protein (SWP3) that is located in the endospore. The gene for this protein is located on chromosome 1 and corresponds to the open reading frame ECU01_1270. SWP3 is predicted to have a signal peptide and to be GPI anchored. Consistent with these modifications, two-dimensional electrophoresis demonstrated that SWP3 has an acidic pI and a molecular mass of <20 kDa. By immunoelectron microscopy, this protein was found on the cell surface during sporogony and in the endospore in mature spores. SWP3 has several potential O-glycosylation sites, and it is possible that it is a mannosylated protein like the major polar tube protein (PTP1). 
1597433	19920601	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Glucose-induced regulatory defects in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae byp1 growth initiation mutant and identification of MIG1 as a partial suppressor.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae byp1-3 mutants displayed a long lag phase when shifted from a nonfermentable carbon source to a medium containing glucose. The byp1-3 mutation also caused several defects in regulatory phenomena which occur during the transition from the derepressed state to the repressed state. As opposed to wild-type cells, the addition of glucose to cells of the byp1-3 mutant grown on nonfermentable carbon sources did not induce a cyclic AMP signal. Fructose-2,6-bisphosphate formation and inactivation of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase were severely delayed, but trehalase activation was not affected. In addition, the induction of pyruvate decarboxylase both at the level of activity and that of transcription was very slow compared with that in wild-type cells. These pleotropic defects in glucose-induced regulatory phenomena might be responsible for the very long lag phase of byp1-3 cells and the inability of ascospores to initiate growth after germination on glucose media. Screening of a yeast gene library for clones complementing the byp1-3 phenotype resulted in the isolation of a truncated form of the previously described zinc finger transcription repressor MIG1. The entire MIG1 gene and the truncated form suppressed even on a single-copy vector the growth initiation defect but not the regulatory abnormalities of the byp1-3 mutant. MIG1 is not allelic to byp1-3. 
23456729	20130305	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Enzyme production by the mixed fungal culture with nano-shear pretreated biomass and lignocellulose hydrolysis.	Cellulase, xylanase, and β-glucosidase production was studied on novel nano-shear pretreated corn stover by the mixed fungi culture. The high shear force from a modified Tayor-Couette nano-shear mixing reactor efficiently disintegrated corn stover, resulting in a homogeneous watery mash with particles in much reduced size. Scanning electron microscope study showed visible mini-pores on the fiber cell wall surface, which could improve the accessibility of the pretreated corn stover to microorganisms. Mixed fungal culture of Trichoderma reesei RUT-C30 and Aspergillus niger produced enzymes with higher cellulolytic and xylanolytic activities on corn stover pretreated with nano-shear mixing reactor, in comparison with other pretreatment methods, including acid and ammonia fiber explosion (AFEX) pretreatment. The hydrolytic potential of the whole fermentation broth from the mixed fungi was studied, and the possibility of applying the whole cell saccharification concept was also investigated to further reduce the cost of lignocellulose hydrolysis. 
12068574	20020619	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D016428 	[Dependence of activities of polysaccharide hydrolases and oxidases from Cerrena unicolor on the source of carbon and aromatic acids in culture media].	The activities of carboxymethylcellulase and xylanase in the higher basidial fungus Cerrena unicolor grown in avicel-containing medium reached 1.95 and 1.50 units per mg protein, respectively, whereas in mannitol-containing medium they ranged from 0.02 to 0.05 units per mg protein. The activity of fungal beta-glucosidase depended on the carbon source in the culture medium and ranged from 2.1 units per mg protein in the presence of mannitol to 17.3 units per mg protein in the presence of avicel. In contrast to polysaccharides, easily metabolizable substrates (cellobiose, mannitol, and glucose) provided the highest rates of secretion of laccase (52.7-123.5 ncat per mg protein) and ligninase (22-106 units per mg protein). The addition of tangerine pomace, a substrate enriched with aromatic compounds, to the culture medium caused an increase in the rate of bio-synthesis of laccase and ligninase to 862 ncat per ml and 557 units per ml, respectively. Aromatic compounds such as p-xylidine and veratric aldehyde increased the laccase activity of C. unicolor IBB 62 from 7.9 to 23.6 and 18.3 ncat per mg protein, respectively. Veratryl alcohol caused a sevenfold increase in the activity of Mn-dependent peroxidase in the culture medium. 
15706864	20050215	Zhongguo_Zhong_Yao_Za_Zhi	D016428 D013485 	[Effects of companion fungus on several enzymatic activities of Grofola umbellata].	To study the effect of companion fungus on several enzymatic activities of Grifola umbellata. Chitinase, beta-1,3-glucanase, proteinase and extracellular enzymes of G. umbellata were measured during dual culturing with companion fungus. Companion fungus could induce the increase of chitinase and beta-1, 3-glucanase activities of G. umbellata. noevident changeswere found in proteinase activity. When in liquid culture, the activities of extracellular enzymes in dual cultured filtrate were between of these of G. umbellata and companion fungus in monocultures. Sclerotia differentiation related materials supplied by mutual nutritional supplement between G. umbellata and companion fungus conduce to sclerotial formation of G. umbellata. 
15301955	20040811	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Enzyme-coupled assay of acetylxylan esterases on monoacetylated 4-nitrophenyl beta-D-xylopyranosides.	Three different monoacetates of 4-nitrophenyl beta-D-xylopyranoside were tested as substrates for beta-xylosidase and for microbial carbohydrate esterases and a series of non-hemicellulolytic esterases. The acetyl group in 2-O-acetyl, 3-O-acetyl, and 4-O-acetyl 4-nitrophenyl beta-D-xylopyranoside makes the glycoside resistant to the action of beta-xylosidase (EC 3.2.1.37). This fact was explored to introduce a new enzyme-coupled assay of acetylxylan esterases (EC 3.1.1.72) and other carbohydrate-deacetylating enzymes. The deacetylation converts the monoacetates into the substrate of beta-xylosidase, the auxiliary enzyme. The effect of the acetyl group migration along the xylopyranoid ring in aqueous media can be avoided by shortening the assay duration. The assay enables an easy examination of the positional specificity of the enzymes, which is important for classification of acetylxylan esterases and for elucidation of the structure-function relationship among carbohydrate esterases in general. Non-hemicellulolytic esterases showed different positional specificity of deacetylation than did acetylxylan esterases. 
20490787	20100522	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 	Magnetically recyclable, antimicrobial, and catalytically enhanced polymer-assisted "green" nanosystem-immobilized Aspergillus niger amyloglucosidase.	The present work reports the integration of polymer matrix-supported nanomaterial and enzyme biotechnology for development of industrially feasible biocatalysts. Aqueous leaf extract of Mesua ferrea L. was used to prepare silver nanoparticles distributed within a narrow size range (1-12 nm). In situ oxidative technique was used to obtain poly(ethylene glycol)-supported iron oxide nanoparticles (3-5 nm). Sonication-mediated mixing of above nanoparticles generated the immobilization system comprising of polymer-supported silver-iron oxide nanoparticles (20-30 nm). A commercially important enzyme, Aspergillus niger amyloglucosidase was coupled onto the immobilization system through sonication. The immobilization enzyme registered a multi-fold increment in the specific activity (807 U/mg) over the free counterpart (69 U/mg). Considerable initial activity of the immobilized enzyme was retained even after storing the system at room temperature as well as post-repeated magnetic recycling. Evaluation of the commendable starch saccharification rate, washing performance synergy with a panel of commercial detergents, and antibacterial potency strongly forwards the immobilized enzyme as a multi-functional industrially feasible system. 
9745020	19980924	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Ace2p, a regulator of CTS1 (chitinase) expression, affects pseudohyphal production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Some diploid strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae can grow both as a spherical yeast form and as a filamentous pseudohyphal form. Most yeasts capable of forming pseudohyphae possess a functional FLO8 gene. We show that disrupting the ACE2 transcription factor results in the production of pseudohyphae in a flo8-1 background. Disrupting the CTS1 (chitinase) gene also produces pseudohyphal growth in this background, but at a reduced level. Invasion of solid media by haploid and diploid cells is increased in ACE2 disruptions, but the diploids adhere poorly to the agar. Sigma1278b-derived strains, which generally produce pseudohyphae, have about 30-fold lower chitinase activity than other strains. 
20184750	20100227	BMC_Plant_Biol.	D016428 D013485 	The Botrytis cinerea xylanase Xyn11A contributes to virulence with its necrotizing activity, not with its catalytic activity.	The Botrytis cinerea xylanase Xyn11A has been previously shown to be required for full virulence of this organism despite its poor contribution to the secreted xylanase activity and the low xylan content of B. cinerea hosts. Intriguingly, xylanases from other fungi have been shown to have the property, independent of the xylan degrading activity, to induce necrosis when applied to plant tissues, so we decided to test the hypothesis that secreted Xyn11A contributes to virulence by promoting the necrosis of the plant tissue surrounding the infection, therefore facilitating the growth of this necrotroph. We show here that Xyn11A has necrotizing activity on plants and that this capacity is conserved in site-directed mutants of the protein lacking the catalytic activity. Besides, Xyn11A contributes to the infection process with the necrotizing and not with the xylan hydrolyzing activity, as the catalytically-impaired Xyn11A variants were able to complement the lower virulence of the xyn11A mutant. The necrotizing activity was mapped to a 30-amino acids peptide in the protein surface, and this region was also shown to mediate binding to tobacco spheroplasts by itself. The main contribution of the xylanase Xyn11A to the infection process of B. cinerea is to induce necrosis of the infected plant tissue. A conserved 30-amino acids region on the enzyme surface, away from the xylanase active site, is responsible for this effect and mediates binding to plant cells. 
22544686	20120501	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation, screening, and optimization of the fermentation conditions of highly cellulolytic bacteria from the hindgut of Holotrichia parallela larvae (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae).	From the hindgut contents of Holotrichia parallela, 93 cellulolytic bacterial isolates were isolated after enrichment in carboxymethyl cellulose medium. Among these isolates, a novel bacterium, designated HP207, with the highest endoglucanase productivity was selected for further study. This bacterium was identified as Pseudomonas sp. based on the results of the 16S ribosomal DNA analysis, morphological characteristics, and biochemical properties. The production of the endoglucanase was optimized by varying various physical culture conditions using a submerged fermentation method. Under the optimized fermentation conditions, the maximum endoglucanase activity of 1.432 U mL(-1) in bacterial cultures was obtained, higher than those of the most widely studied bacteria and fungi, which are the attractive candidates for the commercial producer of cellulase. And the crude endoglucanase enzyme was also highly thermostable; approximately 55% of the original activity was maintained after pretreatment at 70 °C for 1 h. Thus, from the present study, the bacterium can be added up to the database of cellulolytic bacteria. 
33155	19790101	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of an extracellular beta-n-acetylhexosaminidase from Paecilomyces persicinus.	Both beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase nad beta-N-acetylgalactosaminidase activities were detected in the culture fluids of Paecilomyces persicinus P-10 after growth in a soybean meal-corn meal medium. The active material was purified by means of protamine sulfate fractionation and ultrafiltration, followed by ion exchange and gel chromatography. The ratio of the two activities remained constant throughout the purification, and the final product was shown to migrate as a single band by using gel isoelectric focusing, disc electrophoresis, and detergent gel electrophoresis. Temperature, pH, inhibition, and kinetic studies were performed to characterize both activities. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be about 100,000 by high-resolution gel chromatography. Based on the data obtained, it is suggested that both beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase and beta-N-acetylgalactosaminidase activities reside in the same protein. 
8987613	19960901	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparison of thermal and guanidine hydrochloride denaturation behaviors of glucoamylase from the STA1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. diastaticus.	To investigate the relationships between enzyme inactivation and conformational change, the effects of heat and guanidine hydrochloride (GnHC1) on the STA1 gene glucoamylase (STA1GA) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. diastaticus were examined by circular dichroism and fluorescence spectroscopies. A conformational change was observed in the thermal denaturation of STA1GA, while extensive enzyme inactivation occurred in GnHC1 denaturation before noticeable conformational change. 
15202719	20040619	J._Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Tobacco PR-2d promoter is induced in transgenic cucumber in response to biotic and abiotic stimuli.	The PR-2d promoter/uidA (GUS) gene construct was introduced into the cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) genome and several transgenic lines were produced. Activation of the PR-2d promoter was investigated in these plants in response to inoculation with fungal pathogens and after salicylic acid (SA) or cold treatments. Treatment with exogenous SA increased GUS activity 2 to 11 fold over that of the control. Endogenous SA and its conjugate salicylic acid glucoside (SAG) rose in parallel after inoculation with the fungal pathogen Pseudoperonospora cubensis, with SAG becoming the predominant form. The free SA levels increased 15 fold above the basal level at 5 dpi and preceded the induction of the PR-2d promoter by five days, which occurred at 10 dpi with a 12 fold increase over the control. Inoculation with another fungal pathogen, Erysiphe polyphage, increased GUS activity 4 to 44 fold over that of the control. During normal development of flowers in the cucumber, the PR-2d/uidA gene expressed in the floral organs was similar to that of the primary host. In addition, we present the first evidence that the PR-2d promoter was induced (624 fold) under cold stress. We demonstrate that in the heterologous state the gene construct was expressed according to the signalling pattern of the native species and was stably transmitted to progeny over four generations. 
7582005	19951001	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 	Induction and repression of alpha-amylase production in batch and continuous cultures of Aspergillus oryzae.	The intra- and extracellular concentrations of alpha-amylase in Aspergillus oryzae have been measured during batch culture of a wild-type strain and two recombinant strains. The mean intracellular level for the two recombinant strains was about four to five times the level of the wild-type strain. The recombinant strains also had a higher alpha-amylase productivity, whereas the residence time of the intracellular alpha-amylase pool was approximately the same for the three strains. At high glucose concentrations there was a low constitutive synthesis of alpha-amylase, whereas at low glucose concentrations derepression resulted in an increased production rate. Shifts from a glucose- to a maltose-limited chemostat showed that maltose induces both the production and secretion of alpha-amylase. Finally, from immunoblots, both a glycosylated and an unglycosylated alpha-amylase have been detected. 
12630316	20030313	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	The GCR1 gene function is essential for glycogen and trehalose metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Trehalose (Tre) and glycogen (Glg) are synthesized in response to unfavorable growth conditions from glycolytic intermediates in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Transcription of the glycolytic genes is activated by the Gcr1p complex, the DNA binding transcription factor that directly associates with the CT-box sequences on the promoter region of the glycolytic genes. gcr1 mutant yeast cells cannot utilize glucose effectively. Glg and Tre levels in stationary-phase gcr1 mutant yeast cells were 20-50% of those in the wild-type strain. Likewise, stress-induced accumulation of Tre and Glg in gcr1 mutant cells was significantly lower than in the wild type. In addition, both the synthesis and the degradation of Tre and Glg are very slow in the gcr1 mutant. It seems that Gcr1p function is essential for the coordinated regulation of glycolysis, Tre and Glg metabolism in S. cerevisiae. 
395535	19791101	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Effect of fungal cellulases on enzymic activity of malt].	In order to increase malt enzymic activity, cellulases from the fungus Geotrichum candidum were used. Malt milk was processed for 1--3 hr at 40 degrees C and pH 6.0--6.5 by the fungal preparation or culture fluid filtrate used in such quantities in which there were 0.5 to 9.0 units of cellulase activity per g malt. During the process enzymic activities of malt increased significantly: dextrinating activity--by 73%, amylolytic activity--by 60--100%, saccharifying activity--by 3.4 times, and proteolytic activity--by 2 times. 
14633044	20031125	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Antimicrobial activity of Paenibacillus peoriae strain NRRL BD-62 against a broad spectrum of phytopathogenic bacteria and fungi.	To investigate the potential antagonistic activity of Paenibacillus peoriae strain NRRL BD-62 against phytopathogenic micro-organisms and to determine the physiological and biochemical characteristics of the antimicrobial compound produced by this strain. Strain NRRL BD-62 showed a broad inhibition spectrum with activity against various phytopathogenic bacteria and fungi. Physico-chemical characterization of the antimicrobial activity showed that it was stable during heat treatment and was retained even after autoclave at 121 degrees C for 10 min. The compound was also stable after the treatment with organic solvents, hydrolytic enzymes and its activity was preserved at a wide range of pH. The partial purification carried out by Sephadex G25 gel filtration showed two profiles of inhibition against the indicator strains tested, suggesting at least two different substances with distinct molecular weight. This is the first report on the production of antimicrobial substances in P. peoriae. Besides the antimicrobial inhibition capability, the strain NRRL BD-62 is also able to effectively fix molecular nitrogen, and produce chitinases and proteases as well, suggesting that further studies should be addressed to use P. peoriae strain NRRL BD-62 as a plant growth promoter and/or as a biocontrol agent in field experiments. 
16600286	20060408	J._Insect_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Potential role for gut microbiota in cell wall digestion and glucoside detoxification in Tenebrio molitor larvae.	Tenebrio molitor larvae were successfully reared free of cultivatable gut lumen bacteria, yeasts and fungi using two approaches; aseptic rearing from surface sterilized eggs and by feeding larvae with antibiotic-containing food. Insects were reared on a rich-nutrient complete diet or a nutrient-poor refractory diet. A comparison of digestive enzyme activities in germ free and conventional insects containing a gut microbiota did not reveal gross differences in enzymes that degrade cell walls from bacteria (lysozyme), fungi (chitinase and laminarinase) and plants (cellulase and licheninase). This suggested that microbial-derived enzymes are not an essential component of the digestive process in this insect. However, more detailed analysis of T. molitor midgut proteins using an electrophoretic separation approach showed that some digestive enzymes were absent and others were newly expressed in microbiota-free larvae. Larvae reared in antibiotic-containing refractory wheat bran diet performed poorly in comparison with controls. The addition of saligenin, the aglycone of the plant glucoside salicin, has more deleterious effects on microbiota-free larvae than on the conventionally reared larvae, suggesting a detoxifying role of midgut microbiota. Analysis of the volatile organic compounds released from the faecal pellets of the larvae shows key differences in the profiles from conventionally reared and aseptically reared larvae. Pentadecene is a semiochemical commonly found in other beetle species. Here we demonstrate the absence of pentadecene from aseptically reared larvae in contrast to its presence in conventionally reared larvae. The results are discussed in the light of the hypothesis that microbial products play subtle roles in the life of the insect, they are involved in the digestion of refractory food, detoxification of secondary plant compounds and modify the volatile profiles of the insect host. 
22460914	20120331	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a versatile rhizospheric organism from cucumber identified as Ochrobactrum haematophilum.	Several rhizobacteria play a vital role in promoting plant growth and protecting plants against fungal diseases and degrading pesticides in the environment. In this study, a bacterial strain, designated H10, was isolated from the rhizosphere at Laixi in Shandong Province, China, and was identified as Ochrobactrum haematophilum based on API 20 NE tests and 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. The plant growth-promoting characteristics of the strain were further characterized, and the results showed that strain H10 produces siderophore, indol-3-acetic (IAA) and solubilized phosphate but lacks 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase activity. Inoculation with the strain was found to significantly increase (p < 0.05) the growth of cucumber in pot experiments. Strain H10 was assessed in vitro for antagonism against several pathogenic fungi and showed high antifungal activity. The cell-free culture filtrates, which had high extracellular chitinase, β-1,3-glucanase and protease activities, could inhibit the growth of all pathogenic fungi tested, indicating that growth suppression was partly due to extracellular antifungal metabolites present in the culture filtrates. Changes in hyphal morphology were observed in phytopathogenic fungi after treatment with the culture filtrates. Additionally, strain H10 was able to degrade 80%, 85% and 58% of the pesticides chlorpyrifos, β-cypermethrin and imidacloprid, respectively, within 60 h in liquid culture. The inoculation of strain H10 into soil treated with 100 mg kg(-1) of the three pesticides accordingly resulted in a higher degradation rate than in noninoculated soils. These results highlight the potential of this bacterium for use as a biofertilizer and biopesticide and suggest that it may provide an alternative to the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides in agriculture. Additionally, it may represent a bioremediation agent that can remove contaminating chemical pesticide residues from the environment. 
11553760	20010913	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013486 	A fungal endoglucanase with plant cell wall extension activity.	We have identified a wall hydrolytic enzyme from Trichoderma reesei with potent ability to induce extension of heat-inactivated type I cell walls. It is a small (23-kD) endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (Cel12A) belonging to glycoside hydrolase family 12. Extension of heat-inactivated walls from cucumber (Cucumis sativus cv Burpee Pickler) hypocotyls was induced by Cel12A after a distinct lag time and was accompanied by a large increase in wall plasticity and elasticity. Cel12A also increased the rate of stress relaxation of isolated walls at very short times (<200 ms; equivalent to reducing t(0), a parameter that estimates the minimum relaxation time). Similar changes in wall plasticity and elasticity were observed in wheat (Triticum aestivum cv Pennmore Winter) coleoptile (type II) walls, which showed only a negligible extension in response to Cel12A treatment. Thus, Cel12A modifies both type I and II walls, but substantial extension is found only in type I walls. Cel12A has strong endo-glucanase activity against xyloglucan and (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucan, but did not exhibit endo-xylanase, endo-mannase, or endo-galactanase activities. In terms of kinetics of action and effects on wall rheology, wall loosening by Cel12A differs qualitatively from the action by expansins, which induce wall extension by a non-hydrolytic polymer creep mechanism. The action by Cel12A mimics some of the changes in wall rheology found after auxin-induced growth. The strategy used here to identify Cel12A could be used to identify analogous plant enzymes that cause auxin-induced changes in cell wall rheology. 
9118232	19970101	Crit._Rev._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Xylanolytic enzymes from fungi and bacteria.	The development of new analytical techniques and the commercial availability of new substrates have led to the purification and characterization of a large number of xylan-degrading enzymes. Furthermore, the introduction of recombinant DNA technology has resulted in the selection of xylanolytic enzymes that are more suitable for industrial applications. For a successful integration of xylanases in industrial processes, a detailed understanding of the mechanism of enzyme action is, however, required. This review gives an overview of various xylanolytic enzyme systems from bacteria and fungi that have been described recently in more detail. 
18804052	20080923	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Lactose enhances cellulase production by the filamentous fungus Acremonium cellulolyticus.	Acremonium cellulolyticus is a fungus that produces cellulase and has been exploited by enzyme industry. To promote cellulase production by A. cellulolyticus strain C-1, we evaluated the effects of the saccharides: Solka Floc (cellulose), soluble soybean polysaccharide (SSPS), pullulan, lactose, trehalose, sophorose, cellobiose, galactose, sorbose, lactobionic acid, and mixtures as carbon sources for cellulase production. Solka Floc with SSPS enhanced cellulase production. Lactose as the sole carbon source induced cellulase synthesis in this fungus, and the synergistic effects between lactose and Solka Floc was observed. Various enzyme activities and the protein composition of crude enzyme produced by cultures with or without addition of lactose were analyzed. The results showed that lactose addition greatly improves the production of various proteins with cellulase activity by A. cellulolyticus. To our knowledge, this is the first report on production of cellulases by lactose in the A. cellulolyticus. 
15538558	20041113	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular characterization of a beta-1,4-endoglucanase from an endophytic Bacillus pumilus strain.	Endophytes comprise mainly microorganisms that colonize inner plant tissues, often living with the host in a symbiotic manner. Several ecological roles have been assigned to endophytic fungi and bacteria, such as antibiosis to phytopathogenic agents and plant growth promotion. Nowadays, endophytes are viewed as a new source of genes, proteins and biochemical compounds that may be used to improve industrial processes. In this study, the gene EglA was cloned from a citrus endophytic Bacillus strain. The EglA encodes a beta-1,4-endoglucanase capable of hydrolyzing cellulose under in vitro conditions. The predicted protein, EglA, has high homology to other bacterial cellulases and shows a modular structure containing a catalytic domain of the glycosyl hydrolase family 9 (GH9) and a cellulose-binding module type 3 (CBM3). The enzyme was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified to homogeneity, and characterized. EglA has an optimum pH range of 5-8, and remarkable heat stability, retaining more than 85% activity even after a 24-h incubation at pH 6-8.6. This characteristic is an important feature for further applications of this enzyme in biotechnological processes in which temperatures of 50-60 degrees C are required over long incubation periods. 
1911789	19911015	Biochemistry	D003160 D016428 D013487 	6,7-Diepicastanospermine, a tetrahydroxyindolizidine alkaloid inhibitor of amyloglucosidase.	A tetrahydroxyindolizidine alkaloid, 6,7-diepicastanospermine, was isolated from the seeds of Castanospermum australe by extraction with methanol and purified to homogeneity using ion-exchange, preparative thin-layer, and radial chromatography. A very low yield of a pyrrolidine alkaloid, N-(hydroxyethyl)-2-(hydroxymethyl)-3-hydroxypyrrolidine, was also obtained by analogous methods. The purity of both alkaloids was established by gas chromatography of their trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatives as better than 99%. The molecular weight of each alkaloid was established as 189 and 161, respectively, by mass spectrometry, and the structure of each was deduced from their 1H and 13C NMR spectra. The structure of the pyrrolidine alkaloid is suggestive of a possible biosynthetic route to the polyhydroxyindolizidine and polyhydroxypyrrolizidine alkaloids which co-occur in C. australe. 6,7-Diepicastanospermine was found to be a moderately good inhibitor of the fungal alpha-glucosidase, amyloglucosidase (Ki = 8.4 x 10(-5) M) and a relatively weak inhibitor of beta-glucosidase. It failed to inhibit alpha- or beta-galactosidase, alpha- or beta-mannosidase, or alpha-L-fucosidase. Comparison of its inhibitory activity toward amyloglucosidase with those of its isomers, castanospermine and 6-epicastanospermine, demonstrated that epimerization of a single hydroxyl group can produce significant alteration of such inhibitory properties. 
9639928	19980626	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Inducible chitinolytic system of Aspergillus fumigatus.	Incubation of Aspergillus fumigatus NCPF 2140 in growth medium containing 1% chitin as sole carbon source led to induction of specific extracellular chitinolytic activity of 1.5 mumol GlcNAc released min-1 (mg protein)-1. The effect was repressed by the inclusion of GlcNAc in the medium, indicating regulation by a negative feedback mechanism. Extracellular chitinase activity was inhibited by allosamidin (IC50 0.12 microM). Multiple chitinolytic enzymes were detected on zymograms of extracellular preparations; levels of individual enzymes induced were dependent upon whether cells were incubated with purified colloidal chitin or a crude preparation of crystalline chitin. A major, inducible, 45 kDa chitinase was purified using ammonium sulphate precipitation, chitin affinity chromatography and a novel procedure involving the electroelution of the enzyme from a substrate gel containing glycol chitin. The enzyme is a glycoprotein with endochitinase activity. 
22835028	20120728	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	A time course analysis of the extracellular proteome of Aspergillus nidulans growing on sorghum stover.	Fungi are important players in the turnover of plant biomass because they produce a broad range of degradative enzymes. Aspergillus nidulans, a well-studied saprophyte and close homologue to industrially important species such as A. niger and A. oryzae, was selected for this study. A. nidulans was grown on sorghum stover under solid-state culture conditions for 1, 2, 3, 5, 7 and 14 days. Based on analysis of chitin content, A. nidulans grew to be 4-5% of the total biomass in the culture after 2 days and then maintained a steady state of 4% of the total biomass for the next 12 days. A hyphal mat developed on the surface of the sorghum by day one and as seen by scanning electron microscopy the hyphae enmeshed the sorghum particles by day 5. After 14 days hyphae had penetrated the entire sorghum slurry. Analysis (1-D PAGE LC-MS/MS) of the secretome of A. nidulans, and analysis of the breakdown products from the sorghum stover showed a wide range of enzymes secreted. A total of 294 extracellular proteins were identified with hemicellulases, cellulases, polygalacturonases, chitinases, esterases and lipases predominating the secretome. Time course analysis revealed a total of 196, 166, 172 and 182 proteins on day 1, 3, 7 and 14 respectively. The fungus used 20% of the xylan and cellulose by day 7 and 30% by day 14. Cellobiose dehydrogenase, feruloyl esterases, and CAZy family 61 endoglucanases, all of which are thought to reduce the recalcitrance of biomass to hydrolysis, were found in high abundance. Our results show that A. nidulans secretes a wide array of enzymes to degrade the major polysaccharides and lipids (but probably not lignin) by 1 day of growth on sorghum. The data suggests simultaneous breakdown of hemicellulose, cellulose and pectin. Despite secretion of most of the enzymes on day 1, changes in the relative abundances of enzymes over the time course indicates that the set of enzymes secreted is tailored to the specific substrates available. Our findings reveal that A. nidulans is capable of degrading the major polysaccharides in sorghum without any chemical pre-treatment. 
7487021	19950801	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Functional analysis of the threonine- and serine-rich Gp-I domain of glucoamylase I from Aspergillus awamori var. kawachi.	Glucoamylase I (GAI) from Aspergillus awamori var. kawachi hydrolyzes raw starch efficiently and is composed of three functional domains: the amino-terminal catalytic GAI' domain (A-1 to V-469), the threonine- and serine-rich O-glycosylated Gp-I domain (A-470 to V-514), and the carboxy-terminal raw starch-binding Cp domain (A-515 to R-615). In order to investigate the role of the Gp-I domain, an additional repeat of Gp-I and internal deletions of the entire Gp-I sequence or parts of the Gp-I sequence were introduced within Gp-I. All mutant genes as well as the wild-type gene were inserted into a yeast-secretion vector, YEUp3H alpha, and expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Wild-type GAI expressed in yeast cells (GAY), GAGpI, having an extra Gp-I, and GA delta 470-493, lacking the A-470-to-T-493 sequences of Gp-I, were successfully secreted into the culture medium. On the other hand, GA delta 470-507, lacking A-470 to S-507, and GA delta GpI, lacking the entire Gp-I (A-470-to-V-514) sequence, failed to be secreted and remained in the yeast cells. The carbohydrate content of GAGpI was 1.2 times higher than that of GAY and 2.4 times higher than that of the original GAI. The raw starch digestibility of GAGpI was almost the same as that of GAY but was 1.5 times faster than that of GAI.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
23991059	20130831	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	A mitogen-activated protein kinase Tmk3 participates in high osmolarity resistance, cell wall integrity maintenance and cellulase production regulation in Trichoderma reesei.	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways are important signal transduction pathways conserved in essentially all eukaryotes, but haven't been subjected to functional studies in the most important cellulase-producing filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. Previous reports suggested the presence of three MAPKs in T. reesei: Tmk1, Tmk2, and Tmk3. By exploring the phenotypic features of T. reesei Δtmk3, we first showed elevated NaCl sensitivity and repressed transcription of genes involved in glycerol/trehalose biosynthesis under higher osmolarity, suggesting Tmk3 participates in high osmolarity resistance via derepression of genes involved in osmotic stabilizer biosynthesis. We also showed significant downregulation of genes encoding chitin synthases and a β-1,3-glucan synthase, decreased chitin content, 'budded' hyphal appearance typical to cell wall defective strains, and increased sensitivity to calcofluor white/Congo red in the tmk3 deficient strain, suggesting Tmk3 is involved in cell wall integrity maintenance in T. reesei. We further observed the decrease of cellulase transcription and production in T. reesei Δtmk3 during submerged cultivation, as well as the presence of MAPK phosphorylation sites on known transcription factors involved in cellulase regulation, suggesting Tmk3 is also involved in the regulation of cellulase production. Finally, the expression of cell wall integrity related genes, the expression of cellulase coding genes, cellulase production and biomass accumulation were compared between T. reesei Δtmk3 grown in solid state media and submerged media, showing a strong restoration effect in solid state media from defects resulted from tmk3 deletion. These results showed novel physiological processes that fungal Hog1-type MAPKs are involved in, and present the first experimental investigation of MAPK signaling pathways in T. reesei. Our observations on the restoration effect during solid state cultivation suggest that T. reesei is evolved to favor solid state growth, bringing up the proposal that the submerged condition normally used during investigations on fungal physiology might be misleading.  
22733813	20120627	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Endo-exo synergism in cellulose hydrolysis revisited.	Synergistic cooperation of different enzymes is a prerequisite for efficient degradation of cellulose. The conventional mechanistic interpretation of the synergism between randomly acting endoglucanases (EGs) and chain end-specific processive cellobiohydrolases (CBHs) is that EG-generated new chain ends on cellulose surface serve as starting points for CBHs. Here we studied the hydrolysis of bacterial cellulose (BC) by CBH TrCel7A and EG TrCel5A from Trichoderma reesei under both single-turnover and "steady state" conditions. Unaccountable by conventional interpretation, the presence of EG increased the rate constant of TrCel7A-catalyzed hydrolysis of BC in steady state. At optimal enzyme/substrate ratios, the "steady state" rate of synergistic hydrolysis became limited by the velocity of processive movement of TrCel7A on BC. A processivity value of 66 ± 7 cellobiose units measured for TrCel7A on (14)C-labeled BC was close to the leveling off degree of polymerization of BC, suggesting that TrCel7A cannot pass through the amorphous regions on BC and stalls. We propose a mechanism of endo-exo synergism whereby the degradation of amorphous regions by EG avoids the stalling of TrCel7A and leads to its accelerated recruitment. Hydrolysis of pretreated wheat straw suggested that this mechanism of synergism is operative also in the degradation of lignocellulose. Although both mechanisms of synergism are used in parallel, the contribution of conventional mechanism is significant only at high enzyme/substrate ratios. 
9150209	19970501	J._Bacteriol.	D003160 D016428 	Differential patterns of activity displayed by two exo-beta-1,3-glucanases associated with the Aspergillus fumigatus cell wall.	Two exo-beta-1,3-glucanases (herein designated exoG-I and exoG-II) were isolated from the cell wall autolysate of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus and purified by ion-exchange, hydrophobic-interaction, and gel filtration chromatographies. Molecular masses estimated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and gel filtration chromatography were 82 kDa for the monomeric exoG-I and 230 kDa for the dimeric exoG-II. exoG-I and exoG-II were glycosylated, and N glycans accounted, respectively, for 2 and 44 kDa. Their pH optimum is 5.0. Their optimum temperatures are 55 degrees C for exoG-I and 65 degrees C for exoG-II. By a sensitive colorimetric method and high-performance anion-exchange chromatography for product analysis, two patterns of exo-beta-1,3-glucanase activities were found. The 230-kDa exoG-II enzyme acts on p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucoside, beta-1,6-glucan, and beta-1,3-glucan. This activity, which retains the anomeric configuration of glucose released, presented a multichain pattern of attack of the glucan chains and a decrease in the maximum initial velocity (Vm) with the increasing size of the substrate. In contrast, the 82-kDa exoG-I, which inverts the anomeric configuration of the glucose released, hydrolyzed exclusively the beta-1,3-glucan chain with a minimal substrate size of 4 glucose residues. This enzyme presented a repetitive-attack pattern, characterized by an increase in Vm with an increase in substrate size and by a degradation of the glucan chain until it reached laminaritetraose, the limit substrate size. The 82-kDa exoG-I and 230-kDa exoG-II enzymes correspond to a beta-1,3-glucan-glucohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.58) and to a beta-D-glucoside-glucohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.21), respectively. The occurrence and functions of these two classes of exo-beta-1,3-glucanases in other fungal species are discussed. 
24388530	20140107	Plant_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of fungus-responsive cis-acting element in the promoter of Brassica juncea chitinase gene, BjCHI1.	Chitinases are a group of pathogenesis-related proteins. The Brassica juncea chitinase gene BjCHI1 is highly inducible by pathogenic fungal infection, suggesting that the promoter of BjCHI1 might contain specific cis-acting element responsive to fungal attack. To identify the fungus-responsive element in BjCHI1 promoter (BjC-P), a series of binary plant transformation vectors were constructed by fusing the BjC-P or its deletion-derivatives to β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. Expression of the GUS reporter gene was systematically assayed by a transient gene expression system in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves treated with fungal elicitor Hexa-N-Acetyl-Chitohexaose, as well as in transgenic Arabidopsis plants inoculated with fungus Botrytis cinerea. The histochemical and quantitative GUS assays showed that the W-box-like element (GTAGTGACTCAT) in the region (-668 to -657) was necessary for the fungus-response, although there were another five W-box-like elements in BjC-P. In addition, gain-of-function analysis demonstrated that the fragment (-409 to -337) coupled to the W-box-like element was needed for full magnitude of the fungal induction. These results revealed the existence of a novel regulation mechanism of W-box-like element involved in plant pathogenic resistance, and will benefit the potential application of BjC-P in engineering crops.  
11133422	20010103	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Gene integration and expression and extracellular secretion of Erwinia chrysanthemi endoglucanase CelY (celY) and CelZ (celZ) in ethanologenic Klebsiella oxytoca P2.	The development of methods to reduce costs associated with the solubilization of cellulose is essential for the utilization of lignocellulose as a renewable feedstock for fuels and chemicals. One promising approach is the genetic engineering of ethanol-producing microorganisms that also produce cellulase enzymes during fermentation. By starting with an ethanologenic derivative (strain P2) of Klebsiella oxytoca M5A1 with the native ability to metabolize cellobiose, the need for supplemental beta-glucosidase was previously eliminated. In the current study, this approach has been extended by adding genes encoding endoglucanase activities. Genes celY and celZ from Erwinia chrysanthemi have been functionally integrated into the chromosome of P2 using surrogate promoters from Zymomonas mobilis for expression. Both were secreted into the extracellular milieu, producing more than 20,000 endoglucanase units (carboxymethyl cellulase activity) per liter of fermentation broth. During the fermentation of crystalline cellulose with low levels of commercial cellulases of fungal origin, these new strains produced up to 22% more ethanol than unmodified P2. Most of the beneficial contribution was attributed to CelY rather than to CelZ. These results suggest that fungal enzymes with substrate profiles resembling CelY (preference for long-chain polymers and lack of activity on soluble cello-oligosaccharides of two to five glucosyl residues) may be limiting in commercial cellulase preparations. 
12501412	20021227	J._Gen._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 	Glucoamylase from Thermoanaerobacterium thermosaccharolyticum: Sequence studies and analysis of the macromolecular architecture of the enzyme.	A chromosomal DNA fragment with a length of 2,025 bp, carrying the structural gene coding for glucoamylase in Thermoanaerobacterium thermosaccharolyticum, was cloned and sequenced. It coded for 695 amino acids, representing a polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 77.5 kDa. The deduced amino acid sequence exhibited high homologies with the glucoamylase sequence of another bacterial glucoamylase (Clostridium sp. G0005) and with fungal glucoamylases. The catalytic domain (amino acids 271 to 695) of the T. thermosaccharolyticum enzyme shared a high degree of similarity (five conserved regions) with the catalytic domain of Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase. By comparing the secondary structure of the sequence of the catalytic domain of the T. thermosaccharolyticum enzyme with that of glucoamylase from A. awamori, and on the basis of X-ray crystallographic data available for the A. awamori enzyme, it turned out that, most probably, both enzymes have a catalytic domain organized into an "(alpha/alpha)(6)-barrel" and an overall size and shape that is very similar. These findings confirm and extend our working model for the macromolecular architecture of the T. thermosaccharolyticum glucoamylase obtained, in earlier experiments, by electron microscopy of negatively stained isolated enzyme molecules. Antibodies for an enzyme-specific peptide located near the active site were successfully applied for inhibition studies of enzyme activity and for electron microscopic epitope mapping. A study comparing the site of attachment of this kind of antibody to the T. thermosaccharolyticum glucoamylase molecule with the expected attachment site as deduced from the A. awamori enzyme structure confirmed the close similarity of both glucoamylases regarding the macromolecular architecture of that part of the enzyme carrying the catalytic center, though helices H9, H10, and H11 in peripheral parts of the A. awamori enzyme are missing in the T. thermosaccharolyticum enzyme. 
18338189	20080314	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Bioconversion of lignocellulosic biomass: biochemical and molecular perspectives.	In view of rising prices of crude oil due to increasing fuel demands, the need for alternative sources of bioenergy is expected to increase sharply in the coming years. Among potential alternative bioenergy resources, lignocellulosics have been identified as the prime source of biofuels and other value-added products. Lignocelluloses as agricultural, industrial and forest residuals account for the majority of the total biomass present in the world. To initiate the production of industrially important products from cellulosic biomass, bioconversion of the cellulosic components into fermentable sugars is necessary. A variety of microorganisms including bacteria and fungi may have the ability to degrade the cellulosic biomass to glucose monomers. Bacterial cellulases exist as discrete multi-enzyme complexes, called cellulosomes that consist of multiple subunits. Cellulolytic enzyme systems from the filamentous fungi, especially Trichoderma reesei, contain two exoglucanases or cellobiohydrolases (CBH1 and CBH2), at least four endoglucanases (EG1, EG2, EG3, EG5), and one beta-glucosidase. These enzymes act synergistically to catalyse the hydrolysis of cellulose. Different physical parameters such as pH, temperature, adsorption, chemical factors like nitrogen, phosphorus, presence of phenolic compounds and other inhibitors can critically influence the bioconversion of lignocellulose. The production of cellulases by microbial cells is governed by genetic and biochemical controls including induction, catabolite repression, or end product inhibition. Several efforts have been made to increase the production of cellulases through strain improvement by mutagenesis. Various physical and chemical methods have been used to develop bacterial and fungal strains producing higher amounts of cellulase, all with limited success. Cellulosic bioconversion is a complex process and requires the synergistic action of the three enzymatic components consisting of endoglucanases, exoglucanases and beta-glucosidases. The co-cultivation of microbes in fermentation can increase the quantity of the desirable components of the cellulase complex. An understanding of the molecular mechanism leading to biodegradation of lignocelluloses and the development of the bioprocessing potential of cellulolytic microorganisms might effectively be accomplished with recombinant DNA technology. For instance, cloning and sequencing of the various cellulolytic genes could economize the cellulase production process. Apart from that, metabolic engineering and genomics approaches have great potential for enhancing our understanding of the molecular mechanism of bioconversion of lignocelluloses to value added economically significant products in the future. 
16556727	20060325	Am._J._Physiol._Lung_Cell_Mol._Physiol.	D016428 D052061 	Differential expression of chitinases identify subsets of murine airway epithelial cells in allergic inflammation.	The mammalian chitinase family includes members both with and without enzymatic activity against chitin, a product of fungal cell walls, exoskeletons of crustaceans and insects, and the microfilarial sheaths of parasitic nematodes. Two members of that family, Ym1 and acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase), are strongly upregulated in pulmonary T helper (Th) 2 inflammation but not in Th1 inflammation. The sites of expression of these products are incompletely known. We show here that, in two different models of Th2 inflammation, Ym1 and AMCase are mutually exclusively expressed in proximal vs. distal airway epithelium, respectively, whereas both are expressed in alveolar macrophages. This regional difference along the airway corresponds to the previously noted distinction between mucus positive proximal cells and mucus negative distal cells under the same conditions. Among distal cells, AMCase colocalizes with epithelial cells expressing the Clara cell marker Clara cell secretory protein. These AMCase-expressing cells retain expression of FOXA2, a transcription factor whose downregulation in association with IL-13 signaling has previously been associated with production of mucus in proximal airway epithelial cells. These results provide evidence that secretory cells of proximal and distal airways undergo fundamentally different gene expression programs in response to allergic inflammation. Furthermore, AMCase provides the first positive molecular marker of distal Clara cell secretory protein-expressing cells under these conditions. 
18198834	20080118	Biomacromolecules	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Humicola insolens cutinase-catalyzed lactone ring-opening polymerizations: kinetic and mechanistic studies.	This paper explores reaction kinetics and mechanism for immobilized Humicola insolenscutinase (HIC), an important new biocatalyst that efficiently catalyzes non-natural polyester synthetic reactions. HIC, immobilized on Lewatit, was used as catalyst for epsilon-caprolactone (CL) and omega-pentadecalactone (PDL) ring-opening polymerizations (ROPs). Plots of percent CL conversion vs time were obtained in the temperature range from 50 to 90 degrees C. The kinetic plot of ln([M]0/[M]t) vs time (r2 = 0.99) for HIC-catalyzed bulk ROP of CL was linear, indicating that chain termination did not occur and the propagation rate is first order with respect to monomer concentration. Furthermore, linearity to 90% conversion for M(n) vs fractional CL conversion is consistent with a chain-end propagation mechanism. Deviation from linearity above 90% conversion indicates that a competition between ring-opening chain-end propagation and chain growth by steplike polycondensations takes place at high monomer conversion. HIC was inactive for catalysis of L-lactide and (R,S)-beta-butyrolactone ROP. HIC-catalyzed ROP of epsilon-CL and PDL in toluene were successfully performed, giving high molecular weight poly(epsilon-caprolactone) and omega-poly(pentadecalactone). In addition, the relative activities of immobilized Candida antarctica lipase B (CALB) and HIC for epsilon-CL and PDL polymerizations are reported herein. 
21334308	20110222	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Autophagy delivers misfolded secretory proteins accumulated in endoplasmic reticulum to vacuoles in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae.	Autophagy is a conserved intracellular degradation process of eukaryotic cells. In filamentous fungi, although autophagy has been reported to have multiple physiological roles, it is not clear whether autophagy is involved in the degradation of misfolded proteins. Here, we investigated the role of autophagy in the degradation of misfolded secretory proteins accumulated in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae. In late-phase cultures, a disulfide bond-deleted mutant of the secretory protein α-amylase AmyB fused with mDsRed that had accumulated in the ER was subsequently delivered to vacuoles, whereas wild-type AmyB-mDsRed was predominantly located at cell walls and septa. To examine the involvement of autophagy in the delivery of mutant AmyB to vacuoles, mutant AmyB-EGFP was expressed in an A. oryzae autophagy-deficient strain (ΔAoatg8). Microscopic examination revealed that the protein delivery to vacuoles did not occur in the absence of autophagic activity, with mutant AmyB-mDsRed forming large spherical structures surrounded by ER membrane. Hence, we conclude that autophagy is responsible for the delivery of misfolded secretory proteins accumulated in the ER to vacuoles for degradation during late-growth phase in A. oryzae. This is the first study to provide evidence that autophagy plays a role in the degradation of misfolded secretory proteins in filamentous fungi. 
15276457	20040728	Phytochemistry	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Environmental and transgene expression effects on the barley seed proteome.	The barley (Hordeum vulgare) cultivar Golden Promise is no longer widely used for malting, but is amenable to transformation and is therefore a valuable experimental cultivar. Its characteristics include high salt tolerance, however it is also susceptible to several fungal pathogens. Proteome analysis was used to describe the water-soluble protein fraction of Golden Promise seeds in comparison with the modern malting cultivar Barke. Using 2D-gel electrophoresis to visualise several hundred proteins in the pH ranges 4-7 and 6-11, 16 protein spots were found to differ between the two cultivars. Eleven of these were identified by mass spectrometric peptide mass mapping, including an abundant chitinase implicated in defence against fungal pathogens and a small heat-shock protein. To enable a comparison with transgenic seed protein patterns, differences in spot patterns between field and greenhouse-grown seeds were analysed. Four spots were observed to be increased in intensity in the proteome of greenhouse-grown seeds, three of which may be related to nitrogen availability during grain filling and total protein content of the seeds, since they also increased in field grown seeds supplied with extra nitrogen. Finally, the fate of transgene products in barley seeds was followed. Spots containing two green fluorescent protein constructs and the herbicide resistance marker phosphinothricin acetyltransferase were observed in 2D-gel patterns of transgenic seeds and identified by mass spectrometry. Phosphinothricin acetyltransferase was observed in three spots differing in pI suggesting that post-translational modification of the transgene product had occurred. 
22611527	20120522	3_Biotech	D016428 	Studies on an alkali-thermostable xylanase from Aspergillus fumigatus MA28.	An alkalitolerant fungus, Aspergillus fumigatus strain MA28 produced significant amounts of cellulase-free xylanase when grown on a variety of agro-wastes. Wheat bran as the sole carbon source supported higher xylanase production (8,450 U/L) than xylan (7,500 U/L). Soybean meal was observed to be the best nitrogen source for xylanase production (9,000 U/L). Optimum medium pH for xylanase production was 8 (9,800 U/L), though, significant quantities of the enzyme was also produced at pH 7 (8,500 U/L), 9 (8,200 U/L) and 10 (4,600 U/L). The xylanase was purified by ammonium sulphate precipitation and carboxymethyl cellulose chromatography, and was found to have a molecular weight of 14.4 kDa with a V(max) of 980 μmol/min/mg of protein and a K(m) of approximately 4.9 mg/mL. The optimum temperature and pH for enzyme activity was 50 °C and pH 8, respectively. However, the enzyme also showed substantial residual activity at 60-70 °C (53-75%) and at alkaline pH 8-9 (56-88%). 
23584406	20130416	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Promotion of extracellular lignocellulolytic enzymes production by restraining the intracellular β-glucosidase in Penicillium decumbens.	In this study, the functions of β-glucosidases in regulation of the lignocellulolytic enzymes production in Penicillium decumbens 114-2 were investigated. The major extracellular β-glucosidase gene bgl1 and the major intracellular β-glucosidase gene bgl2 were deleted in P. decumbens 114-2 respectively. In Δbgl2, the production of extracellular lignocellulolytic enzymes (including endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases and xylanases) on insoluble cellulose was significantly promoted, while in Δbgl1 there was no any difference compared with that of 114-2. The enhancement of the production of lignocellulolytic enzymes in Δbgl2 was likely attributed to the accumulation of intracellular cellobiose. Induction experiment in Δbgl1Δbgl2 showed that cellobiose was an inducer of lignocellulolytic enzymes expression in P. decumbens 114-2, and the induction was unrelated to the formation, if any, of gentiobiose or sophorose from cellobiose. 
19194005	20090206	Acta_Crystallogr._Sect._F_Struct._Biol._Cryst._Commun.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression, crystallization and preliminary X-ray characterization of CcCel6C, a glycoside hydrolase family 6 enzyme from the basidiomycete Coprinopsis cinerea.	CcCel6C is a gene that encodes a glycoside hydrolase family 6 (GH6) enzyme in the Coprinopsis cinerea genome. In the evolutionary tree of GH6 enzymes, the encoded enzyme was closely related to Cel6B from Humicola insolens, previously called endoglucanase VI, while its amino-acid sequence revealed a region corresponding to the C-terminal active-site-enclosing loop typical of cellobiohydrolase II. Here, the crystallization of CcCel6C produced in Escherichia coli is reported. The square prismatic crystal belonged to the triclinic space group P1, with unit-cell parameters a = 44.04, b = 45.11, c = 48.90 A, alpha = 77.81, beta = 87.34, gamma = 68.79 degrees. Diffraction data were collected to 1.6 A resolution. 
9030754	19970115	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of an endo-1,3-beta-glucanase from Aspergillus fumigatus.	An endo-1,3-beta-glucanase was purified from a cell wall autolysate of Aspergillus fumigatus. This beta-glucanase activity was associated with a glycosylated 74-kDa protein. Using a sensitive colorimetric assay and a high-performance anion-exchange chromatography with a pulsed electrochemical detector for product analysis, it was shown that the endoglucanase hydrolysed exclusively linear 1,3-beta-glucan chains, had an optimum pH of 7.0 and an optimum temperature of 60 degrees C. A substrate kinetic study gave a Km value of 0.3 mg/ml for soluble (laminarin and laminari-oligosaccharides) and 1.18 mg/ml for insoluble (curdlan) 1,3-beta-glucan. Laminari-oligosaccharide degradation, analysed by HPLC, showed that the endoglucanase bind to the subtrate at several positions and suggested that the active site of the enzyme recognized five glucose units linked by a 1,3-beta bond. The association of the present endo-1,3-beta-glucanase with the cell wall of A. fumigatus suggests a putative role for this enzyme during cell-wall morphogenesis. 
24035805	20130917	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Functional diversity of the p24γ homologue Erp reveals physiological differences between two filamentous fungi.	The protein hyper-secreting filamentous fungi impact their surrounding environments by secreting cellulases and digesting plant cell wall via microbe-plant interspecies interaction. This process is of paramount importance in biofuel production from the renewable lignocellulosic biomass, because cellulase production is the key factor in cost determination. Despite the importance of protein secretion, p24 protein, a key factor in eukaryotic protein maturation and secretion, was never investigated in filamentous fungi. The erp genes encoding p24γ homologues were identified in Trichoderma reesei and Penicillium decumbens. The roles of Erp and their participated cellular pathways were investigated via disruption of erp, revealing significant differences: sporulation was hampered in T. reesei Δerp but not in P. decumbens Δerp; in both species Erp maintains membrane integrity; Erp is likely involved in hyphae polarity maintenance in T. reesei. Protein- and transcription-level investigations of Erp participation in cellulase production revealed distinct regulatory mechanisms. In T. reesei, cellulase encoding genes were repressed under secretion stress. In contrast, activation of the same genes under the same stress was identified in P. decumbens. These observations revealed a novel cellulase gene regulation mechanism, clearly suggested the different physiological roles of Erp, and further demonstrated the different physiology of T. reesei and P. decumbens, despite above 75% sequence identity between the proteins and the close evolutionary relationship between the two species.  
16006122	20050712	Bioresour._Technol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Glucoamylase production by solid-state fermentation using rice flake manufacturing waste products as substrate.	Glucoamylase production has been investigated by solid-state fermentation of agro-industrial wastes generated during the processing of paddy to rice flakes (categorized as coarse, medium and fine waste), along with wheat bran and rice powder by a local soil isolate Aspergillus sp. HA-2. Highest enzyme production was obtained with wheat bran (264 +/- 0.64 U/gds) followed by coarse waste (211.5 +/- 1.44 U/gds) and medium waste (192.1 +/- 1.15 U/gds) using 10(6) spores/ml as inoculum at 28 +/- 2 degrees C, pH 5. A combination of wheat bran and coarse waste (1:1) gave enzyme yield as compared to wheat bran alone. Media supplementation with carbon source (0.04 g/gds) as sucrose in wheat bran and glucose in coarse and medium waste increased enzyme production to 271.2 +/- 0.92, 220.2 +/- 0.75 and 208.2 +/- 1.99 U/gds respectively. Organic nitrogen supplementation (yeast extract and peptone, 0.02 g/gds) showed a higher enzyme production compared to inorganic source. Optimum enzyme activity was observed at 55 degrees C, pH 5. Enzyme activity was enhanced in the presence of calcium whereas presence of EDTA gave reverse effect. 
10322008	19990513	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Deletion of new covalently linked cell wall glycoproteins alters the electrophoretic mobility of phosphorylated wall components of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The incorporation of radioactive orthophosphate into the cell walls of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was studied. 33P-labeled cell walls were extensively extracted with hot sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). Of the remaining insoluble radioactivity more than 90% could be released by laminarinase. This radioactive material stayed in the stacking gel during SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis but entered the separating gel upon treatment with N-glycosidase F, indicating that phosphate was linked directly or indirectly to N-mannosylated glycoproteins. The phosphate was bound to covalently linked cell wall proteins as mannose-6-phosphate, the same type of linkage shown previously for soluble mannoproteins (L. Ballou, L. M. Hernandez, E. Alvarado, and C. E. Ballou, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87:3368-3372, 1990). From the phosphate-labeled glycoprotein fraction released by laminarinase, three cell wall mannoproteins, Ccw12p, Ccw13p and Ccw14p, were isolated and identified by N-terminal sequencing. For Ccw13p (encoded by DAN1 [also called TIR3]) and Ccw12p the association with the cell wall has not been described before; Ccw14p is identical with cell wall protein Icwp (I. Moukadiri, J. Armero, A. Abad, R. Sentandreu, and J. Zueco, J. Bacteriol. 179:2154-2162, 1997). In ccw12, ccw13, or ccw14 single or double mutants neither the amount of radioactive phosphate incorporated into cell wall proteins nor its position in the stacking gel was changed. However, the triple mutant brought about a shift of the 33P-labeled glycoprotein components from the stacking gel into the separating gel. The disruption of CCW12 results in a pronounced sensitivity of the cells to calcofluor white and Congo red. In addition, the ccw12 mutant shows a decrease in mating efficiency and a defect in agglutination. 
1326415	19920401	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Multiple-copy integration of the alpha-galactosidase gene from Cyamopsis tetragonoloba into the ribosomal DNA of Kluyveromyces lactis.	We have developed a vector system for high-copy-number integration into the ribosomal DNA of the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis. This system is analogous to the pMIRY-system developed for Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Plasmids containing a portion of K. lactis rDNA for targeted homologous recombination, as well as the S. cerevisiae TRP1 gene with various promoter deletions, were constructed and, after transformation to K. lactis, analyzed for both copy number and stability. These plasmids were found to be present in about 60 copies per cell and were stably maintained during growth under non-selective conditions. Using this vector system, we expressed a fusion construct containing the S. cerevisiae GAL7 promoter, the SUC2 (invertase) signal sequence and the gene coding for alpha-galactosidase from the plant Cyamopsis tetragonoloba. Although the maximum copy number of these integrated plasmids was only about 15, we nevertheless obtained a high level of alpha-galactosidase production (250 mg/l) with a secretion efficiency of about 95%. When compared to extrachromosomal K. lactis vectors containing the same fusion construct, the multicopy integrants showed a much higher alpha-galactosidase production level and a considerably higher stability under non-selective conditions. 
1648007	19910515	Gene	D016428 	Mutations of the alpha-galactosidase signal peptide which greatly enhance secretion of heterologous proteins by yeast.	The Saccharomyces carlsbergensis MEL1 gene encodes alpha-galactosidase (melibiase; MEL1) which is readily secreted by yeast cells into the culture medium. To evaluate the utility of the MEL1 signal peptide (sp) for the secretion of heterologous proteins by Saccharomyces cerevisiae, an expression vector was constructed which contains the MEL1 promoter and MEL1 sp coding sequence (MEL1sp). The coding sequences for echistatin (Echis) and human plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) were inserted in-frame with the MEL1sp. S. cerevisiae transformants containing the resulting expression vectors secreted negligible amounts of either Echis or PAI-1. Using site-directed mutagenesis, several mutations were introduced into the MEL1sp. Two mutations were identified which dramatically increased the secretion of both Echis and PAI-1 to levels similar to those achieved when using the yeast MF alpha 1 pre-pro secretory leader. In particular, increasing the hydrophobicity of the core region plus the addition of a positive charge to the N-terminal domain of the MEL1 sp resulted in the greatest increase in the secretion levels of those two proteins. 
15050837	20040331	J._Invertebr._Pathol.	D016428 D013485 	The extracellular constitutive production of chitin deacetylase in Metarhizium anisopliae: possible edge to entomopathogenic fungi in the biological control of insect pests.	The possible contribution of extracellular constitutively produced chitin deacetylase by Metarhizium anisopliae in the process of insect pathogenesis has been evaluated. Chitin deacetylase converts chitin, a beta-1,4-linked N-acetylglucosamine polymer, into its deacetylated form chitosan, a glucosamine polymer. When grown in a yeast extract-peptone medium, M. anisopliae constitutively produced the enzymes protease, lipase, and two chitin-metabolizing enzymes, viz. chitin deacetylase (CDA) and chitosanase. Chitinase activity was induced in chitin-containing medium. Staining of 7.5% native polyacrylamide gels at pH 8.9 revealed CDA activity in three bands. SDS-PAGE showed that the apparent molecular masses of the three isoforms were 70, 37, and 26 kDa, respectively. Solubilized melanin (10microg) inhibited chitinase activity, whereas CDA was unaffected. Following germination of M. anisopliae conidia on isolated Helicoverpa armigera, cuticle revealed the presence of chitosan by staining with 3-methyl-2-benzothiazoline hydrazone. Blue patches of chitosan were observed on cuticle, indicating conversion of chitin to chitosan. Hydrolysis of chitin with constitutively produced enzymes of M. anisopliae suggested that CDA along with chitosanase contributed significantly to chitin hydrolysis. Thus, chitin deacetylase was important in initiating pathogenesis of M. anisopliae softening the insect cuticle to aid mycelial penetration. Evaluation of CDA and chitinase activities in other isolates of Metarhizium showed that those strains had low chitinase activity but high CDA activity. Chemical assays of M. anisopliae cell wall composition revealed the presence of chitosan. CDA may have a dual role in modifying the insect cuticular chitin for easy penetration as well as for altering its own cell walls for defense from insect chitinase. 
22709906	20120620	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Composition of the mitochondrial electron transport chain in acanthamoeba castellanii: structural and evolutionary insights.	The mitochondrion, derived in evolution from an α-proteobacterial progenitor, plays a key metabolic role in eukaryotes. Mitochondria house the electron transport chain (ETC) that couples oxidation of organic substrates and electron transfer to proton pumping and synthesis of ATP. The ETC comprises several multiprotein enzyme complexes, all of which have counterparts in bacteria. However, mitochondrial ETC assemblies from animals, plants and fungi are generally more complex than their bacterial counterparts, with a number of 'supernumerary' subunits appearing early in eukaryotic evolution. Little is known, however, about the ETC of unicellular eukaryotes (protists), which are key to understanding the evolution of mitochondria and the ETC. We present an analysis of the ETC proteome from Acanthamoeba castellanii, an ecologically, medically and evolutionarily important member of Amoebozoa (sister to Opisthokonta). Data obtained from tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) analyses of purified mitochondria as well as ETC complexes isolated via blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis are combined with the results of bioinformatic queries of sequence databases. Our bioinformatic analyses have identified most of the ETC subunits found in other eukaryotes, confirming and extending previous observations. The assignment of proteins as ETC subunits by MS/MS provides important insights into the primary structures of ETC proteins and makes possible, through the use of sensitive profile-based similarity searches, the identification of novel constituents of the ETC along with the annotation of highly divergent but phylogenetically conserved ETC subunits. 
3512097	19860228	Cell	D016428 D013485 	Secretion in yeast: reconstitution of the translocation and glycosylation of alpha-factor and invertase in a homologous cell-free system.	A homologous cell-free system has been derived from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that allows the translation, translocation, and glycosylation of the precursors of yeast mating factor alpha and invertase. The precursors were translated in a yeast lysate from mRNA obtained by in vitro transcription of the MF alpha 1 and SUC2 genes. Inclusion of yeast microsomes resulted in the glycosylation of the alpha-factor precursor, which was demonstrated to be sequestered within the membrane vesicles. Similar results, including signal sequence cleavage, were observed for invertase. Processing of secretory proteins translated in a yeast lysate could not be achieved using microsomes derived from canine pancreas, nor were yeast microsomes active in a wheat germ translation system. 
7050669	19820201	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013486 	Developmental regulation of a sporulation-specific enzyme activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	An alpha-glucosidase activity (SAG) occurs in a/alpha Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells beginning at about 8 to 10 h after the initiation of sporulation. This enzyme is responsible for the rapid degradation of intracellular glycogen which follows the completion of meiosis in these cells. SAG differs from similar activities present in vegetative cells and appears to be a sporulation-specific enzyme. Cells arrested at various stages in sporulation (DNA replication, recombination, meiosis I, and meiosis II) were examined for SAG activity; the results show that SAG appearance depends on DNA synthesis and some recombination events but not on the meiotic divisions. 
19824396	20091015	Pol._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Optimization of growth conditions for xylanase production by Aspergillus niger in solid state fermentation.	The objectives of the present study were isolation, identification and characterization of xylanase producing fungi, optimization of medium composition and cultural conditions for xylanase enzyme production using cheaper sources. The fungal strains were isolated from garden soil by serial dilution technique and Aspergillus niger was identified and isolated in pure form. In conformation screening by congo red test, based on the reddish zone of enzyme activity formation in oat spelt xylan agar plates, A. niger was selected and optimized for xylanase enzyme production in solid state fermentation using cheaper sources like wheat bran, rice bran, soya bran, ragi bran and dust. Maximum enzyme activity was observed in wheat bran (9.87 U/ml). The use of wheat bran as a major carbon source is particularly valuable because oat spelt xylan or birch wood xylan are more expensive. The effects of time course, incubation substrate, inoculum size, moisturizing agent, moisture content, temperature and volume of fermentation medium on the production of xylanase were studied. The maximum xylanase production (12.65 U/ml) was observed at optimized condition, incubation temperature of 28 degrees C after 6 days of incubation period while minimum production (9.38 U/ml) at unoptimized condition. The maximum production of enzyme was found to be in wheat bran when the volume of fermentation medium was kept as 10 g/250 ml conical flasks, with mineral solution as moisturizing agent and moisture ratio 1:0.7. Thus the present study proved that the fungal strain A. niger used is highly potential and useful for xylanase production. 
15937722	20050607	J._Plant_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Activation of the gene promoter of barley beta-1,3-glucanase isoenzyme GIII is salicylic acid (SA)-dependent in transgenic rice plants.	Pathogenesis-related proteins (PR), including beta-1,3-glucanases may provide the first line of defense against fungal pathogens. Many PR proteins are activated by salicylic acid (SA), which acts as an endogenous signal. We have previously isolated seven members of the beta-1,3-glucanase gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare). In this paper, we characterized the beta-1,3-glucanase isoenzyme GIII for SA-responsive elements in the GIII gene promoter. A series of deletion mutations of the promoter were fused to the reporter gene beta-glucuronidase (gus). The GUS activity was analyzed in rice calli (Oryza sativa L.) in response to SA. A deletion fragment between -362 and +106 bp showed the highest level of GUS activity in these assays. This promoter fused with gus was further introduced into rice plants for stable transformation. Histochemical staining and fluorometric quantitation of GUS activity in leaves of transgenic plants revealed prominent GUS expression after SA induction. RNA analysis by Northern blotting confirmed the importance of this region, indicating that cis-acting elements required for SA-inducible expression exist within 362 bp upstream from the transcriptional start site. 
16523351	20060309	Mycorrhiza	D003160 D016428 	Differential expression of two class III chitinases in two types of roots of Quercus robur during pre-mycorrhizal interactions with Piloderma croceum.	Expression of two plant chitinase genes, representing members of class III chitinases, was studied in Quercus robur roots during interactions in a pre-mycorrhizal stage with the ectomycorrhizal fungus Piloderma croceum. Chitinase gene expression was compared in lateral roots destined to form ectomycorrhiza, and in principal roots that are not directly involved in mycorrhizal interactions. The transcript level of the first chitinase (QrchitIII-1) was upregulated in lateral roots, whereas no significant differential expression was observed in principal roots. The second chitinase (QrchitIII-2) was regulated neither in lateral nor in principal roots in presence of the fungus. Because P. croceum did not induce significant chitinase responses in principal roots, the enhanced expression of QrchitIII-1 in lateral roots after inoculation may be related to some steps in symbiosis ontogenesis. 
1398137	19921021	Gene	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Primary structure of a chitinase-encoding gene (chi1) from the filamentous fungus Aphanocladium album: similarity to bacterial chitinases.	Chitinase 1 (Chi1) is the major extracellular chitinase from the hyperparasitic fungus, Aphanocladium album. We determined the complete sequence of the chromosomal and cDNA copies of the structural gene (chi1) coding for Chi1. The coding region is interrupted by three short introns (55, 53 and 49 bp long). Chi1 is 423 aa long and begins with a stretch of 34 aa not found in the mature protein. The Chi1 sequence presents overall similarities with bacterial chitinases from Serratia marcescens and Bacillus circulans. Compared with other chitinases, A. album Chi1 has only two short similarity regions (12 and 8 aa long), which are also found in bacterial, yeast and some plant chitinases. 
23864577	20130719	Environ_Microbiol_Rep	D016428 D013485 	The Gac regulon of Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25.	Transcriptome analysis of Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25 showed that 702 genes were differentially regulated in a gacS::Tn5 mutant, with 300 and 402 genes up- and downregulated respectively. Similar to the Gac regulon of other Pseudomonas species, genes involved in motility, biofilm formation, siderophore biosynthesis and oxidative stress were differentially regulated in the gacS mutant of SBW25. Our analysis also revealed, for the first time, that transcription of 19 rhizosphere-induced genes and of genes involved in type II secretion, (exo)polysaccharide and pectate lyase biosynthesis, twitching motility and an orphan non-ribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) were significantly affected in the gacS mutant. Furthermore, the gacS mutant inhibited growth of oomycete, fungal and bacterial pathogens significantly more than wild type SBW25. Since RP-HPLC analysis did not reveal any potential candidate metabolites, we focused on the Gac-regulated orphan NRPS gene cluster that was predicted to encode an eight-amino-acid ornicorrugatin-like peptide. Site-directed mutagenesis indicated that the encoded peptide is not involved in the enhanced antimicrobial activity of the gacS mutant but may function as a siderophore. Collectively, this genome-wide analysis revealed that a mutation in the GacS/A two-component regulatory system causes major transcriptional changes in SBW25 and significantly enhances its antimicrobial activities by yet unknown mechanisms. 
22354955	20120223	MBio	D016428 D052061 D013485 	A glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor is required for membrane localization but dispensable for cell wall association of chitin deacetylase 2 in Cryptococcus neoformans.	Cell wall proteins (CWPs) mediate important cellular processes in fungi, including adhesion, invasion, biofilm formation, and flocculation. The current model of fungal cell wall organization includes a major class of CWPs covalently bound to β-1,6-glucan via a remnant of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. This model was established by studies of ascomycetes more than a decade ago, and relatively little work has been done with other fungi, although the presumption has been that proteins identified in the cell wall which contain a predicted GPI anchor are covalently linked to cell wall glucans. The pathogenic basidiomycete Cryptococcus neoformans encodes >50 putatively GPI-anchored proteins, some of which have been identified in the cell wall. One of these proteins is chitin deacetylase 2 (Cda2), an enzyme responsible for converting chitin to chitosan, a cell wall polymer recently established as a virulence factor for C. neoformans infection of mammalian hosts. Using a combination of biochemistry, molecular biology, and genetics, we show that Cda2 is GPI anchored to membranes but noncovalently associated with the cell wall by means independent of both its GPI anchor and β-1,6-glucan. We also show that Cda2 produces chitosan when localized to the plasma membrane, but association with the cell wall is not essential for this process, thereby providing insight into the mechanism of chitosan biosynthesis. These results increase our understanding of the surface of C. neoformans and provide models of cell walls likely applicable to other undercharacterized basidiomycete pathogenic fungi. The surface of a pathogenic microbe is a major interface with its host. In fungi, the outer surface consists of a complex matrix known as the cell wall, which includes polysaccharides, proteins, and other molecules. The mammalian host recognizes many of these surface molecules and mounts appropriate responses to combat the microbial infection. Cryptococcus neoformans is a serious fungal pathogen that kills over 600,000 people annually. It converts most of its chitin, a cell wall polysaccharide, to chitosan, which is necessary for virulence. Chitin deacetylase enzymes have been identified in the cell wall, and our studies were undertaken to understand how the deacetylase is linked to the wall and where it has activity. Our results have implications for the current model of chitosan biosynthesis and further challenge the paradigm of covalent linkages between cell wall proteins and polysaccharides through a lipid modification of the protein. 
11934296	20020406	Biotechnol._Prog.	D003160 D016428 	Coupling of surface carboxyls of carboxymethylcellulase with aniline via chemical modification: extreme thermostabilization in aqueous and water-miscible organic mixtures.	We wish to report the attainment of the highest ever T(opt) by introducing approximately two aromatic rings through chemical modification of surface carboxyl groups in carboxymethylcellulase from Scopulariopsis sp. with concomitant decrease in V(max), K(m), and optimum pH! This extraordinary enhancement in thermophilicity of aniline-coupled CMCase (T(opt) = 122 degrees C) by a margin of 73 degrees C as compared with the native enzyme (T(opt) = 49 degrees C) is the highest reported for any mesophilic enzyme that has been modified either through chemical modification or site-directed mutagenesis. It is also reported for the first time that aniline coupled CMCase (ACC) is simultaneously thermostable in aqueous as well as water-miscible organic solvents. The T(opt) of native CMCase and ACC were 25 and 90 degrees C, respectively, in 40% (v/v) aqueous dioxan. The modified enzyme was also stabilized against irreversible thermal denaturation. Therefore, at 55 degrees C, ACC had a half-life of 136 min as compared with native CMCase whose half-life was only 5 min. We believe that the reasons for this elevated thermostability and thermophilicity are surface aromatic-aromatic interactions and aromatic interactions with the sugar backbone of the substrate, respectively. 
11085997	20001122	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	Identification of a novel acidic mammalian chitinase distinct from chitotriosidase.	Chitinases are ubiquitous chitin-fragmenting hydrolases. Recently we discovered the first human chitinase, named chitotriosidase, that is specifically expressed by phagocytes. We here report the identification, purification, and subsequent cloning of a second mammalian chitinase. This enzyme is characterized by an acidic isoelectric point and therefore named acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase). In rodents and man the enzyme is relatively abundant in the gastrointestinal tract and is found to a lesser extent in the lung. Like chitotriosidase, AMCase is synthesized as a 50-kDa protein containing a 39-kDa N-terminal catalytic domain, a hinge region, and a C-terminal chitin-binding domain. In contrast to chitotriosidase, the enzyme is extremely acid stable and shows a distinct second pH optimum around pH 2. AMCase is capable of cleaving artificial chitin-like substrates as well as crab shell chitin and chitin as present in the fungal cell wall. Our study has revealed the existence of a chitinolytic enzyme in the gastrointestinal tract and lung that may play a role in digestion and/or defense. 
17910720	20071004	Int._J._Dermatol.	D002363 D016428 	alpha1-Antitrypsin deficiency presenting with panniculitis and incidental discovery of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	A 60-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department (ED) with large, painful, indurated plaques on the right thigh, left abdomen, left chest, and right chest, which began without any preceding trauma on the right thigh 3 weeks prior to presentation in the ED. He was initially treated with cefazolin 1 g three times daily as home infusions. When the lesions continued to progress, he was admitted to the hospital and placed on amoxicillin/clavulanate and vancomycin. He had a single episode of fever of 102 degrees F, but his white blood cell count and differential remained normal. An initial biopsy showed a dermal inflammatory infiltrate composed primarily of neutrophils and eosinophils with rare flame figures in the dermis. There was minimal fat seen in this biopsy. A differential diagnosis of Wells or Sweet's syndrome was entertained, and he was placed on 60 mg/day prednisone with no resolution of his symptoms. The patient's past medical history included hypertension, hyperlipidemia, peripheral neuropathy, and hiatal hernia. His family history was significant for emphysema in both parents and coronary artery disease in his father. Both of his parents smoked cigarettes. His grandfather, who was a coal miner, also had emphysema. Whilst on antibiotics and prednisone, the plaques on the patient's right thigh, right abdomen, and left chest expanded and ulcerated, draining an oily liquid (Figs 1 and 2). An incisional biopsy was obtained from his thigh. Histopathology showed a septal and lobular panniculitis with fat necrosis, neutrophils, and histiocytes (Fig. 3). Special stains for organisms were negative. Tissue sent for bacterial and fungal culture had no growth. Amylase and lipase levels were normal. Rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibody (ANA), antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA), cryoglobulins, and antiphospholipid antibodies were all normal. The alpha1-antitrypsin level was low at 25 mg/dL (ref. 75-135). The alpha1-antitrypsin phenotype was PiZZ. The patient had a normal glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase level and was placed on dapsone 200 mg/day. The inflammation resolved and, over the course of several months, the involved areas healed with scarring. The patient denied any pulmonary complaints but, during his hospitalization, was found incidentally to have an oxygen saturation of 88% on room air. He was sent for evaluation by a pulmonologist, and pulmonary function tests revealed a mixed restrictive and obstructive pattern with a forced expiratory volume in 1 to forced vital capacity (FEV(1)/FVC) ratio of 63% of predicted. He had never smoked. He was placed on supplemental oxygen but, as his pulmonary disease has been stable, he has not been treated with intravenous antitrypsin inhibitor. 
10862890	20000623	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 	From gene to product in yeast: production of fungal cutinase.	In the mid-1970s, information technology and recombinant DNA technology were considered as the breakthrough technologies of the final quarter of the 20th century. Now, about 25 years later, information technology has penetrated deeply into our society and nearly everyone uses this technology. Compared to the formidable success of information technology, the progress in the commercialization of recombinant DNA technology is moderate, even when taking into account that all that is related to the technological application of biological sciences needs extensive safety testing. However, there are signs that the speed of this commercialization will increase in the first decade of the 21st century. Moreover, new breakthroughs in our understanding of the complete genetic make up of eukaryotes will contribute to this increase in speed. An important aspect of the commercialization of this technology is the development of cells as factories for the production of valuable and/or useful molecules. Lower eukaryotes, such as yeasts and molds, are the most promising candidates to become the factories of the future, but at present these factories still contains a lot of process lines that may be superfluous under the well controlled conditions in fermentors. On the other hand, the speed and yield of these cellular production lines can be increased by eliminating the rate-determining steps of these process lines. In this contribution to the European Union symposium from Cell to Factory, some steps in the improvement of S. cerevisiae as cell factories for (heterologous) hydrophobic molecules are presented. 
12552901	20030130	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Cloning and expression of Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase III (EG III) gene in Saccharomyces cerevasiae].	Using Congo red-staining method, one positive clone with CMCase activity was isolated from the Trichoderma ressei cDNA gene bank constructed in Saccharomyces cerevasiae. Sequencing result showed that the 1.5 kb-length DNA fragment inserted in the recombinant plasmid encoded EG III gene from T. reesei. Enzymatic characterization of the EG III produced by recombinant S. cerevasiae was analyzed. The experimental results indicated that the optimum pH and temperature for EG III are 5.0 and 60 degrees C, respectively. The effects of secretory system components SSO 2 and SEB1 of S. cerevisiae on EG III secretion were examined. The results indicated that the amount of EG III secreted by the strain with SSO 2-overexpression was highest among the different recombinant S. cerevisiae strains, showed that SSO 2 is a rate-limiting component of the secretory machinery in the process of EG III secretion. Furthermore, the EG III expression level was increased 5.3 times by deletion. Furthermore, the EG III expression level was increased 5.3 times by deletion of the 98 bp in 5' untranslated region of eg3 mRNA sequence. This result suggested that the regulation region could exist in the 5' untranslated region of EG III mRNA, which is recognized by the gene expression related factors of S. cerevasiae. 
11743726	20011218	J._Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Family 7 cellobiohydrolases from Phanerochaete chrysosporium: crystal structure of the catalytic module of Cel7D (CBH58) at 1.32 A resolution and homology models of the isozymes.	Cellobiohydrolase 58 (Cel7D) is the major cellulase produced by the white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium, constituting approximately 10 % of the total secreted protein in liquid culture on cellulose. The enzyme is classified into family 7 of the glycosyl hydrolases, together with cellobiohydrolase I (Cel7A) and endoglucanase I (Cel7B) from Trichoderma reesei. Like those enzymes, it catalyses cellulose hydrolysis with net retention of the anomeric carbon configuration. The structure of the catalytic module (431 residues) of Cel7D was determined at 3.0 A resolution using the structure of Cel7A from T. reesei as a search model in molecular replacement, and ultimately refined at 1.32 A resolution. The core structure is a beta-sandwich composed of two large and mainly antiparallel beta-sheets packed onto each other. A long cellulose-binding groove is formed by loops on one face of the sandwich. The catalytic residues are conserved and the mechanism is expected to be the same as for other family members. The Phanerochaete Cel7D binding site is more open than that of the T. reesei cellobiohydrolase, as a result of deletions and other changes in the loop regions, which may explain observed differences in catalytic properties. The binding site is not, however, as open as the groove of the corresponding endoglucanase. A tyrosine residue at the entrance of the tunnel may be part of an additional subsite not present in the T. reesei cellobiohydrolase. The Cel7D structure was used to model the products of the five other family 7 genes found in P. chrysosporium. The results suggest that at least two of these will have differences in specificity and possibly catalytic mechanism, thus offering some explanation for the presence of Cel7 isozymes in this species, which are differentially expressed in response to various growth conditions. 
23497862	20130319	Food_Chem	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Morphology and structural properties of high-amylose rice starch residues hydrolysed by amyloglucosidase.	High-amylose starches are attracting considerable attention because of their potential health benefits and industrial uses. Enzyme hydrolysis of starch is involved in many biological and industrial processes. In this paper, starches were isolated from high-amylose transgenic rice (TRS) and its wild type rice, Te-qing (TQ). The morphological and structural changes of starch residues following Aspergillus niger amyloglucosidase (AAG) hydrolysis were investigated. AAG hydrolysed TQ starch from the granule surface, and TRS starch from the granule interior. During AAG hydrolysis, the content of amorphous structure increased, the contents of ordered structure and single helix decreased, and gelatinisation enthalpy decreased in TQ and TRS starch residues. The A-type polymorph of TRS C-type starch was hydrolysed faster than the B-type polymorph. The short-range ordered structure and B-type polymorph in the peripheral region of the subgranule and the surrounding band of TRS starch increased the resistance of TRS starch to AAG hydrolysis. 
22075029	20111115	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparative study of Trichoderma gene expression in interactions with tomato plants using high-density oligonucleotide microarrays.	Trichoderma spp. are widely used as biopesticides and biofertilizers to control diseases and to promote positive physiological responses in plants. In vitro and in vivo assays with Trichoderma harzianum CECT 2413 (T34), Trichoderma virens Gv29-8 (T87) and Trichoderma hamatum IMI 224801 (T7) revealed that these strains affected the growth and development of lateral roots in tomato plants in different ways. The early expression profiles of these Trichoderma strains were studied after 20 h of incubation in the presence of tomato plants, using a high-density oligonucleotide (HDO) microarray, and compared to the profiles in the absence of plants. Out of the total 34 138 Trichoderma probe sets deposited on the microarray, 1077 (3.15 %) showed a significant change of at least 2-fold in expression in the presence of tomato plants. The numbers of probe sets identified in the individual Trichoderma strains were 593 in T. harzianum T34, 336 in T. virens T87 and 94 in T. hamatum T7. Carbohydrate metabolism - the chitin degradation enzymes N-acetylglucosamine-6-phosphate deacetylase, glucosamine-6-phosphate deaminase and chitinase - was the most significantly overrepresented process commonly observed in the three Trichoderma strains in early interactions with tomato plants. Strains T7 and T34, which had similar positive effects on plant development in biological assays, showed a significantly overrepresented hexokinase activity in interaction with tomato. In addition, genes encoding a 40S ribosomal protein and a P23 tumour protein were altered in both these strains. 
23642171	20130507	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Optimization of transplastomic production of hemicellulases in tobacco: effects of expression cassette configuration and tobacco cultivar used as production platform on recombinant protein yields.	Chloroplast transformation in tobacco has been used extensively to produce recombinant proteins and enzymes. Chloroplast expression cassettes can be designed with different configurations of the cis-acting elements that govern foreign gene expression. With the aim to optimize production of recombinant hemicellulases in transplastomic tobacco, we developed a set of cassettes that incorporate elements known to facilitate protein expression in chloroplasts and examined expression and accumulation of a bacterial xylanase XynA. Biomass production is another important factor in achieving sustainable and high-volume production of cellulolytic enzymes. Therefore, we compared productivity of two tobacco cultivars - a low-alkaloid and a high-biomass - as transplastomic expression platforms. Four different cassettes expressing XynA produced various mutant phenotypes of the transplastomic plants, affected their growth rate and resulted in different accumulation levels of the XynA enzyme. The most productive cassette was identified and used further to express XynA and two additional fungal xylanases, Xyn10A and Xyn11B, in a high-biomass tobacco cultivar. The high biomass cultivar allowed for a 60% increase in XynA production per plant. Accumulation of the fungal enzymes reached more than 10-fold higher levels than the bacterial enzyme, constituting up to 6% of the total soluble protein in the leaf tissue. Use of a well-characterized translational enhancer with the selected expression cassette revealed inconsistent effects on accumulation of the recombinant xylanases. Additionally, differences in the enzymatic activity of crude plant extracts measured in leaves of different age suggest presence of a specific xylanase inhibitor in the green leaf tissue. Our results demonstrate the pivotal importance of the expression cassette design and appropriate tobacco cultivar for high-level transplastomic production of recombinant proteins. 
15635463	20050107	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Hydrolysis of terpenyl glycosides in grape juice and other fruit juices: a review.	The importance of monoterpenes on varietal flavour of must and other fruit juices has been reviewed. These compounds were mainly found linked to sugar moieties in grape juice and wines, showing no olfactory characteristics. In this way, analytical techniques developed to study these compounds, in both free or glycosidically forms, are discussed. Mechanisms to liberate terpenes were studied, making a comparative study between acidic and enzymic hydrolysis of terpene glycosides; as enzymic hydrolysis seems to be the most natural way to liberate terpenes, the ability to use glycosidases from grapes, yeasts, bacterial or exogenous, i.e. fungal commercial preparations, were reviewed. Re-arrangements of terpenes after acidic hydrolysis of glycoconjugated are discussed as well as potential adverse effects of enzyme preparations. 
11279139	20010330	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Directed mutagenesis of apecific active site residues on Fibrobacter succinogenes 1,3-1,4-beta -D-glucanase significantly affects catalysis and enzyme structural stability.	The functional and structural significance of amino acid residues Met(39), Glu(56), Asp(58), Glu(60), and Gly(63) of Fibrobacter succinogenes 1,3-1,4-beta-d-glucanase was explored by the approach of site-directed mutagenesis, initial rate kinetics, fluorescence spectroscopy, and CD spectrometry. Glu(56), Asp(58), Glu(60), and Gly(63) residues are conserved among known primary sequences of the bacterial and fungal enzymes. Kinetic analyses revealed that 240-, 540-, 570-, and 880-fold decreases in k(cat) were observed for the E56D, E60D, D58N, and D58E mutant enzymes, respectively, with a similar substrate affinity relative to the wild type enzyme. In contrast, no detectable enzymatic activity was observed for the E56A, E56Q, D58A, E60A, and E60Q mutants. These results indicated that the carboxyl side chain at positions 56 and 60 is mandatory for enzyme catalysis. M39F, unlike the other mutants, exhibited a 5-fold increase in K(m) value. Lower thermostability was found with the G63A mutant when compared with wild type or other mutant forms of F. succinogenes 1,3-1,4-beta-d-glucanase. Denatured wild type and mutant enzymes were, however, recoverable as active enzymes when 8 m urea was employed as the denaturant. Structural modeling and kinetic studies suggest that Glu(56), Asp(58), and Glu(60) residues apparently play important role(s) in the catalysis of F. succinogenes 1,3-1,4-beta-d-glucanase. 
23848286	20130716	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 	β-Alkylated oligomaltosides as new alternative preservatives: antimicrobial activity, cytotoxicity and preliminary investigation of their mechanism of action.	The need for developing efficient and safe alternatives to parabens has been growing in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. To this end, the antimicrobial activities and safety of methyl-β-d-maltoside, methyl-β-d-maltotrioside and their dodecyl homologues were investigated. Antimicrobial activities of methyl- and dodecyl-β-d-oligomaltoside have been tested on European pharmacopoeia reference strains. When effective, minimal inhibitory concentrations ranged from 32 to 1024 mg l(-1) . Methyl derivatives exhibited greater antibacterial properties, while their dodecyl homologues were more active on fungal strains. To elucidate the mechanism of action of methyl compounds, enzymatic inhibition assays of key maltose metabolism enzymes have been conducted. Methyl-β-maltotrioside (MeG3) was found to be effective in inhibiting microbial glucoamylase and α-amylase. MeG3 and dodecyl-β-maltotrioside cytotoxicity were also checked on HepG2 cells and were found to be low, compared with benzalkonium chloride or parabens. Methyl- and dodecyl-β-maltoside or maltotrioside were found to be active against reference strains used for preservatives efficacy testing. Methyl derivatives could act through an interesting inhibition of the microbial enzymatic metabolism. Given their very simple chemical structure, low toxicity and good antimicrobial activity, methyl-β-d-oligomaltosides could represent a valuable alternative to currently used preservatives such as parabens. 
16396247	20060107	Med._Mycol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Analysis of the major proteins secreted by the human opportunistic pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus under in vitro conditions.	Although secreted proteins of pathogenic microorganisms often represent potential virulence factors, so far only limited information has been available on the proteins secreted by Aspergillus fumigatus. We therefore analysed supernatant proteins after growth in different media. In serum-free cell culture medium A. fumigatus growth was limited and no protein secretion was detectable, whereas distinct protein patterns were detectable after growth in either aspergillus minimal medium (AMM) or the more complex yeast glucose medium (YG). The three major proteins secreted under these conditions were identified as the ribotoxin mitogillin, a chitosanase and the aspergillopepsin i. Mitogillin and chitosanase were secreted in AMM, whereas aspergillopepsin i was especially prominent after growth in YG. When the AMM cultures reached stationary phase, seven additional major proteins were detectable. Two of them were identified as the chitinase chiB1 and a beta(1-3) endoglucanase. Conditioned medium containing mitogillin and chitosanase did not have a detectable cytotoxic effect on A549 and Vero cells. Using recombinant mitogillin and chitosanase we detected anti-chitosanase and antimitogillin antibodies in sera of patients suffering from invasive aspergillosis or aspergilloma, but not in control sera of healthy individuals. This suggests that chitosanase, like mitogillin, is expressed during infection and might therefore be of diagnostic relevance. 
12861495	20030716	Pneumologie	D004740 D016428 D016454 	[Occupational allergies to cellulases].	In the 1960s an increasing number of occupational allergies in the detergent industry against the proteolytic enzyme Subtilisin were observed. In this context the high sensitization potential of enzyme dusts attracted attention. The present evaluation of literature data confirms that this is also true for cellulases. These enzymes--mostly of fungal origin--are frequently used in biotechnology. Several cases of specific airway sensitization caused by cellulases are verified by a number of studies. As symptoms, results of skin prick tests, detection of specific IgE-antibodies and results of specific bronchoprovocation tests are consistent, an immunologic mechanism seems to be confirmed. 
20238168	20100319	Mol._Biol._Rep.	D016428 	Heterologous expression and efficient ethanol production of a Rhizopus glucoamylase gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Glucoamylases are inverting exo-acting starch hydrolases releasing β-glucose from the non-reducing ends of starch and related substrates. Due to the absence of glucoamylase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, it is not capable of utilizing starch directly as energy sources without enzymatic or chemical hydrolysis for its ethanol production. In this study, we heterologously expressed a previously isolated Rhizopus arrhizus glucoamylase gene in S. cerevisiae host. The expressed glucoamylase enzyme was secreted into the culture supernatant and exhibited a molecular weight of 68 kDa on SDS-PAGE gel and western blot. In the flask ferment experiment of S. cerevisiae growing on raw starch, the RaGA transformed strains could utilize starch as energy source to produce ethanol up to a final concentration as 5%. 
11069006	20001109	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of acetic acid and furfural on cellulase production of Trichoderma reesei RUT C30.	Because of the high temperature applied in the steam pretreatment of lignocellulosic materials, different types of inhibiting degradation products of saccharides and lignin, such as acetic acid and furfural, are formed. The main objective of the present study was to examine the effect of acetic acid and furfural on the cellulase production of a filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei RUT C30, which is known to be one of the best cellulase-producing strains. Mandels's mineral medium, supplemented with steam-pretreated willow as the carbon source at a concentration corresponding to 10 g/L of carbohydrate, was used. Four different concentration levels of acetic acid (0-3.0 g/L) and furfural (0-1.2 g/L) were applied alone as well as in certain combinations. Two enzyme activities, cellulase and beta-glucosidase, were measured. The highest cellulase activity obtained after a 7-d incubation was 1.55 FPU/mL with 1.0 g/L of acetic acid and 0.8 g/L of furfural added to the medium. This was 17% higher than that obtained without acetic acid and furfural. Furthermore, the results showed that acetic acid alone did not influence the cellulase activity even at the highest concentration. However, beta-glucosidase activity was increased with increasing acetic acid concentration. Furfural proved to be an inhibiting agent causing a significant decrease in both cellulase and beta-glucosidase production. 
14593919	20031105	Mol._Biol._(Mosk.)	D004740 D016428 	[Molecular analysis of alpha-galactosidase MEL genes from Saccharomyces sensu stricto].	To infer the molecular evolution of yeast Saccharomyces sensu stricto from analysis of the alpha-galactosidase MEL gene family, two new genes were cloned and sequenced from S. bayanus var. bayanus and S. pastorianus. Nucleotide sequence homology of the MEL genes of S. bayanus var. bayanus (MELb), S. pastorianus (MELpt), S. bayanus var. uvarum (MELu), and S. carlsbergensis (MELx) was rather high (94.1-99.3%), comparable with interspecific homology (94.8-100%) of S. cerevisiae MEL1-MEL11. Homology of the MEL genes of sibling species S. cerevisiae (MEL1), S. bayanus (MELb), S. paradoxus (MELp), and S. mikatae (MELj) was 76.2-81.7%, suggesting certain species specificity. On this evidence, the alpha-galactosidase gene of hybrid yeast S. pastorianus (S. carlsbergensis) was assumed to originate from S. bayanus rather than from S. cerevisiae. 
15896990	20050518	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Ectopic expression of a constitutively active Cdc42 small GTPase alters the morphology of haploid and dikaryotic hyphae in the filamentous homobasidiomycete Schizophyllum commune.	Cloning of the Cdc42 gene from Schizophyllum commune enabled investigation of the role of ScCdc42 in the regulation of vegetative growth and sexual reproduction in this fungus, which has a well-characterized hyphal cell structure, cytoskeleton, and mating system. Ectopic expression of the constitutively active Sccdc42(G12V) or Sccdc42(Q61L) alleles from native or inducible ScCel1 promoters in haploid hyphae had dramatic effects on hyphal morphology, cytoskeletal structure, and Cdc42 localization. For transformants with constitutively active Sccdc42, polar tip growth of apical cells in the leading hyphae was normal but polar tip growth in side branches was altered, implying different regulation of polarity establishment in the two groups of apical cells. Branch emergence at exceptional sites and isotropic growth of cells near the septum indicated that ScCdc42 regulates branch site selection and subsequent hyphal development. Poor dikaryotization along with irregular clamp connections in mates expressing Sccdc42(G12V) or Sccdc42(Q61L) suggested that Cdc42 also contributes to efficient mating in S. commune. 
22563990	20120509	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Improved purity and immunostimulatory activity of β-(1→3)(1→6)-glucan from Pleurotus sajor-caju using cell wall-degrading enzymes.	The objective of this work was to improve the purity of β-(1→3)(1→6)-glucan in the native triple helical structure from the fruiting bodies of Pleurotus sajor-caju for effective biological function using cell wall-degrading enzymes. A crude carbohydrate was extracted with hot water, then treated with crude xylanase and cellulase from Paenibacillus curdlanolyticus B-6. β-Glucan in the extract was purified to homogeneity with a single and symmetrical peak using 650M DEAE Toyopearl and Sepharose CL-6B column chromatography. The purity of β-glucan was confirmed by high-performance size-exclusion chromatography. Purified β-glucan was obtained at a purity of up to 90.2%. The Congo red reaction and atomic force microscopy indicated that the purified β-glucan exhibited a triple helix conformation. Purified β-glucan was able to effectively up-regulate the functions of macrophages such as nitric oxide (NO) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) production. 
15614968	20041224	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystalization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of the laminarinase endo-beta-1,3-glucanase from Pyrococcus furiosus.	Laminarinase endo-beta-1,3 glucanase (LamA) from Pyrococcus furiosus is an enzyme which displays its main hydrolytic activity on the 3-1,3-glucose polymer laminarin. This laminarinase is remarkably resistant to denaturation: its secondary structure is unchanged in 8 M guanidinium chloride. This protein belongs to the family 16 glycosyl hydrolases, which are enzymes that are widely distributed among bacteria, fungi and higher plants. Single crystals of P. furiosus LamAhave been obtained by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method using 2-methyl-2,4-pentanediol as a precipitant agent. A complete data set has been collected under cryocooling at a synchrotron source. The crystals belong to the monoclinic space group P21, with unit-cell parameters a = 44.36, b = 84.76, c = 69.23 A, a = 90, fl = 104.97, y = 90 degrees, and diffract to 2.15 A resolution. 
16453175	20060203	Biodegradation	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Enzyme activities and chemical changes in wet olive cake after treatment with Pleurotus ostreatus or Eisenia fetida.	A laboratory experiment was conducted to evaluate the enzyme activities and chemical changes recorded in a recalcitrant phenolic-rich waste after treatment with Pleurotus ostreatus or Eisenia fetida. The waste used was wet olive cake (alperujo in Spanish), a waste produced in huge amounts by the olive oil industry. Both P. ostreatus and E. fetida were very effective in removing phenolic compounds, the initial concentration in the wet olive cake being reduced in both cases by around 90%. Laccase and manganese peroxidase activities were measured in the growth medium of P. ostreatus, and catechol 2,3 dioxygenase activity was only detected in the waste treated with Eisenia; these could be the main factors responsible for the oxidation of phenolic compounds. Increases of dehydrogenase and beta-glucosidase activities were detected in the degraded wet olive cake by fungi or earthworms. In comparison with the natural wet olive cake, the degraded products had lower total organic carbon and humic acid contents but were rich in nitrogen and other nutrients, having lower C:N ratios. In addition, the toxicity of the wet olive cake against the seeds of Lepidium sativum significantly decreased after degradation. The low toxicity as well as moderate stability and maturity recorded in the wet olive cake treated with P. ostreatus or E. fetida imply that these products could be used as soil amendments. 
23681763	20130518	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Genetic and functional characterization of culturable plant-beneficial actinobacteria associated with yam rhizosphere.	Actinobacteria were isolated from the rhizosphere of yam plants from agricultural fields from Yeoju, South Korea and analyzed for their genetic and plant-beneficial functional diversity. A total of 29 highly occurring actinobacterial isolates from the yam rhizosphere were screened for various plant-beneficial traits such as antimicrobial activity on fungi and bacteria; biocontrol traits such as production of siderophore, protease, chitinase, endo-cellulase, and β-glucanase. The isolates were also screened for plant growth-promoting (PGP) traits such as auxin production, phosphate solubilization, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) deaminase activity, and in vitro Arabidopsis growth promotion. 16S rDNA sequence-based phylogenetic analysis was carried out on the actinobacterial isolates to determine their genetic relatedness to known actinobacteria. BOX-PCR analysis revealed high genetic diversity among the isolates. Several isolates were identified to belong to the genus Streptomyces and a few to Kitasatospora. The actinobacterial strains exhibited high diversity in their functionality and were identified as novel and promising candidates for future development into biocontrol and PGP agents.  
16233217	20051020	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 	Complete cDNA sequence of chitin deacetylase from Gongronella butleri and its phylogenetic analysis revealed clusters corresponding to taxonomic classification of fungi.	A cDNA library containing a chitin deacetylase (CDA) gene from a zygomycete Gongronella butleri was constructed and the complete gene was sequenced. The complete gene contains an open reading frame of 1290 nucleotides which encodes a sequence of 430 amino acid residues. The gene sequence consists of nucleotides encoding a polysaccharide deacetylase domain located in the middle, covering 34% of the entire sequence. This domain shares high sequence similarities with CDAs of fungi and other deacetylases including the nodb-like protein from Sinorhizobium meliloti and Bacillus subtilis, xylanase D from Cellulomonas fimi, and acetylxylan esterase A from Streptomyces lividans. The deduced amino acid sequence shows homology with CDAs from Mucor rouxii (48% identity) and Phycomyces blakesleeanus (30% identity). Phylogenetic analysis reveals that CDAs are clustered in accordance with the taxonomic classification of the fungi. 
10816043	20000518	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Morphology-related effects on gene expression and protein accumulation of the yeast Arxula adeninivorans LS3.	The dimorphism of the yeast Arxula adeninivorans LS3 is regulated by cultivation temperatures. Up to 42 degrees C the yeast grows as budding cells, which turn to mycelia at higher temperatures. To test whether the dimorphism is exclusively induced by high temperatures or also by other conditions, mutants were selected with an altered behaviour with respect to dimorphism. After mutagenesis with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, five of 25,000 colonies formed a very rough surface consisting of mycelia at 30 degrees C, in contrast to the wild-type. These mutants allow temperature-mediated and morphology-related effects on gene expression and protein accumulation to be distinguished. Budding cells and mycelia showed different expression of genes encoding secretory proteins at the same temperature. Mycelia secreted two-fold more protein than budding cells, including the enzymes glucoamylase and invertase. This indicated that morphology, rather than temperature, is the decisive factor in the analysed processes. 
22210620	20120103	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Rice straw-decomposing fungi and their cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes.	Filamentous fungi colonizing rice straw were collected from 11 different sites in Korea and were identified based on characterization of their morphology and molecular properties. The fungi were divided into 25 species belonging to 16 genera, including 14 ascomycetes, one zygomycete, and one basidiomycete. Fungal cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes were assessed through a two-step process, wherein highly active cellulase- and/or hemicellulaseproducing fungi were selected in a first screening step followed by a second step to isolate the best enzymeproducer. Twenty-five fungal species were first screened for the production of total cellulase (TC), endo-beta-1,4 glucanase (EG), and endo-beta-1,4 xylanase (XYL) using solid-state fermentation with rice straw as substrate. From this screening, six species, namely, Aspergillus niger KUC5183, A. ochraceus KUC5204, A. versicolor KUC5201, Mucor circinelloides KUC6014, Trichoderma harzianum 1 KUC5182, and an unknown basidiomycete species, KUC8721, were selected. These six species were then incubated in liquid Mandels' media containing cellulose, glucose, rice straw, or xylan as the sole carbon source and the activities of six different enzymes were measured. Enzyme production was highly influenced by media conditions and in some cases significantly increased. Through this screening process, Trichoderma harzianum 1 KUC5182 was selected as the best enzyme producer. Rice straw and xylan were good carbon sources for the screening of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes. 
20393704	20100416	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular detection and diversity of xylanase genes in alpine tundra soil.	Xylan is a major polysaccharide in plant cell walls, and its degradation is mainly conducted by microbial xylanases in nature. To explore the xylanase diversity in the environment, two sets of degenerate primers were designed based on the microbial xylanase sequences in Pfam database of glycosyl hydrolase (GH) family 10 and 11 and were used to amplify objective gene fragments directly from the alpine tundra soil DNA of the Tianshan Mountains, China. Ninety-six distinct GH 10 and 31 GH 11 xylanase gene fragments were retrieved, and most of them have low identities with known sequences in GenBank. Based on phylogenetic analysis, all of the GH 10 xylanase sequences fell into six clusters and were related to xylanases from Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Acidobacteria. Three clusters of GH 11 xylanase sequences were established, and two of them were related with enzymes from fungi. These results indicated the diversity of xylanase genes in this cold environment. Four xylanolytic strains were isolated from the soil, and GH 10 xylanase gene fragments were cloned using the same primers. A full-length gene was obtained and expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant enzyme showed some cold-related characteristics. Our study provides an efficient molecular approach to study xylanase in complex environments and casts an insight into the diversity and distribution of xylanases in a cold environment, which is very meaningful to understand their roles in xylan degradation in nature. 
23292745	20130108	Biotechnol._Prog.	D023362 D016428 	Impact of an acid fungal protease in high gravity fermentation for ethanol production using Indian sorghum as a feedstock.	This study evaluated the conventional jet cooking liquefaction process followed by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) at 30% and 35% dry solids (DS) concentration of Indian sorghum feedstock for ethanol production, with addition of acid fungal protease or urea. To evaluate the efficacy of thermostable α-amylase in liquefaction at 30% and 35% DS concentration of Indian sorghum, liquefact solubility, higher dextrins, and fermentable sugars were analyzed at the end of the process. The liquefact was further subjected to SSF using yeast. In comparison with urea, addition of an acid fungal protease during SSF process was observed to accelerate yeast growth (μ), substrate consumption (Q(s)), ultimately ethanol yield based on substrate (Y(p/s)) and ethanol productivity based on fermentation time (Q(p)). The fermentation efficiency and ethanol recovery were determined for both concentrations of Indian sorghum and found to be increased with use of acid fungal protease in SSF process. 
15998115	20050707	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Role of chitinase and sormatin accumulation in the resistance of sorghum cultivars to grain mold.	Experiments were conducted to determine the association between resistance to grain mold and the accumulations of chitinase and sormatin. Eight sorghum lines were treated at 50% bloom with Fusarium thapsinum, Curvularia lunata, a mixture of the two fungi, and a water-sprayed control. At maturity, percent disease severity, seed germination rates, and kernel weight were recorded. Chitinase and sormatin content (mg/g of dry weight) were measured in seed samples taken at 30 and 50 days after treatment (DAT). Seed chitinase content was moderately affected by sorghum line (P = 0.10) and significantly affected by the developmental stage of the kernels (P = 0.05). Cultivars Sureno, 98LB650, and 98LB723 exhibited larger negative changes in chitinase content at 50 DAT over water-sprayed control treatment at 30 DAT than the susceptible cultivars Dorado, RTx2536, and RTx430. In 2000, significant negative correlations were observed for percent disease severity and chitinase content at 30 DAT, seed germination and sormatin content at 50 DAT, and between seed germination and kernel weight. There also was a significant positive correlation between germination and chitinase content at 30 DAT. No association between disease severity and changes in chitinase content at 50 DAT was observed. Sormatin content also was significantly affected by the stage of kernel development. Sorghum cultivars inoculated with fungal pathogens responded differently as indicated by the significant sorghum line x treatment interaction for sormatin content in 2000. In both years, larger increases in sormatin content over the water-sprayed control treatments were observed on moderately susceptible to susceptible cultivars such as 98LB650, 98LB723, 98LB789, RTx430, and RTx2536 than on Sureno. Except for percent disease severity and germination, there was no significant association among all of the other parameters measured in 2001. The results of this study did not clearly demonstrate a strong association between resistance to grain mold and the accumulation of sormatin and chitinase. Thus, there is the possibility that certain moderately resistant to resistant sorghum cultivars, such as Sureno, may employ other strategies to eschew or restrict fungal invasion either before or after physiological maturity. 
9057332	19970301	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Cel1, probably encoding a cellobiohydrolase lacking the substrate binding domain, is expressed in the initial infection phase of Claviceps purpurea on Secale cereale.	At the host-pathogen interface of hyphae penetrating host cell walls in the rye ovary, a lack of cellulase-gold labeling of beta-1, 4-glucan in host cell walls indicates that enzymatic degradation of cellulose might be an important factor during the infection of rye by Claviceps purpurea. Using cbh1 from Trichoderma reesei as a probe, a putative cellulase gene (cel1) was isolated from a genomic library of the C. purpurea strain T5. The coding region of 1,616 bp contains two introns and a putative signal peptidase cleavage site, leaving a coding capacity of 437 amino acids for the mature protein. The derived amino acid sequence shares significant homology with other fungal cellobiohydrolases and lacks the substrate binding domain. Expression analysis using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) shows that cel1 is induced during the first days of infection of rye by C. purpurea. It may be involved in the penetration and degradation of host cell walls by depolymerizing plant beta-1, 4-glucan and, therefore, play a role in the infection process. 
8929279	19961101	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Study of supramolecular structures released from the cell wall of Candida albicans by ethylenediamine treatment.	Candida albicans cell wall components were analyzed by ethylenediamine (EDA) treatment. Based on their different solubility properties, the cell wall components produced three fractions (A, B, and C). Fractions B (EDA-soluble, water-insoluble) and C (EDA-insoluble) contained glucan, chitin, and protein in different proportions. After zymolyase (mainly a beta-glucanase complex) or chitinase treatment of fractions B and C, more polysaccharides and proteins were solubilized by a second EDA treatment, suggesting that the solubility of the polymers in EDA depends on the degree of polymer interactions. Western blot analysis using two monoclonal antibodies (1B12 and 4C12) revealed electrophoretic patterns that were similar in mycelial and yeast morphologies, except that in material obtained from mycelial walls, an additional band was detected with MAb 1B12. Fluorescence microscopy of cell wall fractions treated with FITC-labeled Con-A, Calcofluor white, and FITC-labeled agglutinin showed that glucan and mannoproteins are uniformly distributed in fractions B and C, while chitin is restricted to distinct patches. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that fraction C maintained the original shape of the cells, with an irregular thickness generally wider than the walls. When fraction C was treated with chitinase, the morphology was still present and was maintained by an external glucan layer, with an internal expanded fibrillar material covering the entire cellular lumen. Degradation of the glucan skeleton of fraction C with zymolyase resulted in the loss of the morphology. 
7765568	19941201	Biotechnology_(N.Y.)	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Establishment of genetic linkage by allele-specific polymerase chain reaction: application to the lignin peroxidase gene family of Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	Determining linkage is problematic for genes lacking easily identifiable phenotypes and for organisms without well-defined genetic recombination systems. Phanerochaete chrysosporium with its lignin peroxidase (LiP) gene family typifies these difficulties. We describe an experimental approach whereby the segregation of specific alleles is directly monitored during sexual fruiting. The method establishes linkage relationships among genes for which there are no mutations, and it is applicable to a wide range of genes, gene families and organisms. Using this approach, five P. chrysosporium linkage groups were identified. Ten LiP genes were distributed among three of these groups. One co-segregating group contained eight closely linked LiP genes. Another LiP gene was linked to a cellobiohydrolase gene cluster. These genetic linkages were consistent with physical mapping by pulsed field gel electrophoresis. Based on the identification of allelic relationships, a uniform nomenclature for LiP genes is also described. 
7847891	19940101	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Strategies for improving heterologous protein production from filamentous fungi.	Despite the naturally high capacity for protein secretion by many species of filamentous fungi, secreted yields of many heterologous proteins have been comparatively low. The strategies for yield improvement have included the use of strong homologous promoters, increased gene copy number, gene fusions with a gene encoding a naturally well-secreted protein, protease-deficient host strains and screening for high yields following random mutagenesis. Such approaches have been effective with some target heterologous proteins but not others. Approaches used in heterologous protein production from filamentous fungi are discussed and a perspective on emerging strategies is presented. 
7733460	19950120	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 	Modulation of the behavior of a protein in polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of dodecyl sulfate by varying the cations.	The denaturation of Aspergillus oryzae alpha-amylase by dodecyl sulfates can be modulated by the change of cations among sodium, lithium, and several alkanolammonium ions. The denaturation can be detected by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of alkanolammonium dodecyl sulfates, particularly around 0 degree C where the denaturation reaction can be virtually frozen. The moderate stability of the amylase against denaturation by dodecyl sulfates helped to demonstrate the difference among the cations. We previously reported a significant difference among the dodecyl sulfates in their ability to dissociate chlorophyll-protein assemblies. The present results indicated that there is also a difference in the ability of the dodecyl sulfates to denature the amylase, a monomeric water-soluble protein. Two species, one retaining intact disulfide bonds and the other underwent a single sulfhydryl-disulfide exchange reaction, were generated during amylase denaturation by dodecyl sulfates. 
22467503	20120403	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Soil fungal cellobiohydrolase I gene (cbhI) composition and expression in a loblolly pine plantation under conditions of elevated atmospheric CO2 and nitrogen fertilization.	The simultaneous increase of atmospheric CO(2) and nitrogen (N) deposition to terrestrial ecosystems is predicted to alter plant productivity and, consequently, to change the amount and quality of above- and belowground carbon entering forest soils. It is not known how such changes will impact the composition and function of soil fungal communities that play a key role in degrading complex carbon. We sequenced the fungal cellobiohydrolase I gene (cbhI) from soil DNA and cDNA to compare the richness and composition of resident and expressed cbhI genes at a U.S. Department of Energy free air-carbon dioxide enrichment (FACE) site (NC), which had been exposed to elevated atmospheric CO(2) and/or N fertilization treatment for several years. Our results provide evidence that the richness and composition of the cellulolytic fungi surveyed in this study were distinct in the DNA- and cDNA-based gene surveys and were dominated by Basidiomycota that have low or no representation in public databases. The surveys did not detect differences in richness or phylum-level composition of cbhI-containing, cellulolytic fungi that correlated with elevated CO(2) or N fertilization at the time of sampling. 
21169437	20101221	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Heterogeneity of Aspergillus niger microcolonies in liquid shaken cultures.	The fungus Aspergillus niger forms (sub)millimeter microcolonies within a liquid shaken culture. Here, we show that such microcolonies are heterogeneous with respect to size and gene expression. Microcolonies of strains expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) from the promoter of the glucoamlyase gene glaA or the ferulic acid esterase gene faeA were sorted on the basis of diameter and fluorescence using the Complex Object Parametric Analyzer and Sorter (COPAS) technology. Statistical analysis revealed that the liquid shaken culture consisted of two populations of microcolonies that differ by 90 μm in diameter. The population of small microcolonies of strains expressing GFP from the glaA or faeA promoter comprised 39% and 25% of the culture, respectively. Two populations of microcolonies could also be distinguished when the expression of GFP in these strains was analyzed. The population expressing a low level of GFP consisted of 68% and 44% of the culture, respectively. We also show that mRNA accumulation is heterogeneous within microcolonies of A. niger. Central and peripheral parts of the mycelium were isolated with laser microdissection and pressure catapulting (LMPC), and RNA from these samples was used for quantitative PCR analysis. This analysis showed that the RNA content per hypha was about 45 times higher at the periphery than in the center of the microcolony. Our data imply that the protein production of A. niger can be improved in industrial fermentations by reducing the heterogeneity within the culture. 
23417562	20130219	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptome profiling of Botrytis cinerea conidial germination reveals upregulation of infection-related genes during the prepenetration stage.	Botrytis cinerea causes gray mold on a great number of host plants. Infection is initiated by airborne conidia that invade the host tissue, often by penetration of intact epidermal cells. To mimic the surface properties of natural plant surfaces, conidia were incubated on apple wax-coated surfaces, resulting in rapid germination and appressorium formation. Global changes in gene expression were analyzed by microarray hybridization between conidia incubated for 0 h (dormant), 1 h (pregermination), 2.5 h (postgermination), 4 h (appressoria), and 15 h (early mycelium). Considerable changes were observed, in particular between 0 h and 1 h. Genes induced during germination were enriched in those genes encoding secreted proteins, including lytic enzymes. Comparison of wild-type and a nonpathogenic MAP kinase mutant (bmp1) revealed marked differences in germination-related gene expression, in particular related to secretory proteins. Using promoter-GFP reporter strains, we detected a strictly germination-specific expression pattern of a putative chitin deacetylase gene (cda1). In contrast, a cutinase gene (cutB) was found to be expressed only in the presence of plant lipids, in a developmentally less stringent pattern. We also identified a coregulated gene cluster possibly involved in secondary metabolite synthesis which was found to be controlled by a transcription factor also encoded in this cluster. Our data demonstrate that early conidial development in B. cinerea is accompanied by rapid shifts in gene expression that prepare the fungus for germ tube outgrowth and host cell invasion. 
9537763	19980416	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Effect of cytochalasin A on apical growth, actin cytoskeleton organization and enzyme secretion in Aspergillus nidulans.	The role of actin in apical growth and enzyme secretion in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans was studied by treating the hyphae with cytochalasin A (CA), which inhibits actin polymerization. Indirect immunofluorescence microscopy revealed actin at the tips of main hyphae and branches, and at the site of developing septa. CA inhibited the growth of the fungus and changed the growth pattern of hyphal tips from cylindrical tubes to spherical beads. The regions with swellings showed no actin fluorescence, and neither was actin seen in association with septa. After 4 h exposure, hyphae were able to resume the normal tip growth pattern in the presence of CA for a short period of time and new cylindrical hyphae, with actin fluorescence at the apex, emerged from the swollen tips. Later, the tips of the hyphae swelled again, which led to a beaded appearance. We also studied the effect of CA on the secretion of alpha- and beta-galactosidase. alpha-Galactosidase is secreted into the culture medium, whereas beta-galactosidase remains in the mycelium, with part of its activity bound to the cell wall. When A. nidulans mycelium was incubated in the presence of CA, a reduction in the secretion of alpha-galactosidase into the culture medium and a decrease in the alpha- and beta-galactosidase activities bound to the cell wall was detected. However, the CA dose used for the hyphae did not modify the secretion of the enzymes from protoplasts. Results described here provide evidence that a polymerized actin cytoskeleton is required for normal apical growth, hyphal tip shape and polarized enzyme secretion in A. nidulans. Cytochalasin-induced disruptions of the actin cytoskeleton could result in the alterations of apical growth and inhibition of enzyme secretion observed by blocking secretory vesicle transport to the apex. 
22581664	20120515	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of chitinase genes of Metarhizium anisopliae isolates in lepidopteran pests and on synthetic media.	Pathogenecity of the well characterized entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae used for biocontrol of a wide range of insect pests secretes hydrolytic enzymes that degrade the host cuticle. The chitinolytic activity of high and low virulent isolates of M. anisopliae was assayed on minimal medium (MM) + colloidal chitin and MM supplemented with insect cuticles. Ex- pression pattern of four chitinase genes (chitinase (chi), chi 1, chi 2, chi 3) was profiled during pathogenic stages of the entomopathogen under in vitro and in vivo conditions. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis confirmed that chitinase cDNAs were expressed during the germination of fungus under nutrient-deprived conditions. RT-PCR analysis performed for the four chitinase genes on the two insect hosts Spodoptera litura and Helicoverpa armigera at six developmental stages of the pathogen displayed up-regulation in S. litura at mycosed and conidiated condition while with H. armigera there was expression only after 48 h of incubation. Differential expression of chi, chi 1 and chi 2 genes in vitro (nitrogen rich and nitrogen limiting media) and in vivo (live insect hosts S. litura and H. armigera) implicate the role of substrate differences in pathogenesis. 
23839085	20130711	Biochem._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular characterization of a fungicidal endoglucanase from the cyanobacterium Calothrix elenkinii.	A gene responsible for fungicidal activity was identified in the cyanobacterial strain Calothrix elenkinii RPC1, which had shown promise as a biocontrol agent. Functional screening of the genomic library revealed fungicidal (against Pythium aphanidermatum) and endoglucanase activities in two clones. Sequencing revealed an open reading frame of 1,044 bp, encoding 348 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular weight of 38 kDa. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence of the putative gene (cael1) showed 99% similarity with the β-1,4-endoglucanase from Anabaena laxa RPAN8 and 97% with the glucanase belonging to the peptidase M20 family of Anabaena variabilis and Nostoc sp. PCC7120, respectively. The putative promoters, ribosomal binding sites and a signal peptide of 22 amino acid residues were identified, revealing the secretory nature of the protein. The phylogenetic tree indicated a close relationship of the gene with Bacillus sp. This study is the first to report on the characterization of an endoglucanase in Calothrix sp. 
23100518	20121027	J._Immunol.	D016428 D013485 	Prolonged neutrophil dysfunction after Plasmodium falciparum malaria is related to hemolysis and heme oxygenase-1 induction.	It is not known why people are more susceptible to bacterial infections such as nontyphoid Salmonella during and after a malaria infection, but in mice, malarial hemolysis impairs resistance to nontyphoid Salmonella by impairing the neutrophil oxidative burst. This acquired neutrophil dysfunction is a consequence of induction of the cytoprotective, heme-degrading enzyme heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in neutrophil progenitors in bone marrow. In this study, we assessed whether neutrophil dysfunction occurs in humans with malaria and how this relates to hemolysis. We evaluated neutrophil function in 58 Gambian children with Plasmodium falciparum malaria [55 (95%) with uncomplicated disease] and examined associations with erythrocyte count, haptoglobin, hemopexin, plasma heme, expression of receptors for heme uptake, and HO-1 induction. Malaria caused the appearance of a dominant population of neutrophils with reduced oxidative burst activity, which gradually normalized over 8 wk of follow-up. The degree of neutrophil impairment correlated significantly with markers of hemolysis and HO-1 induction. HO-1 expression was increased in blood during acute malaria, but at a cellular level HO-1 expression was modulated by changes in surface expression of the haptoglobin receptor (CD163). These findings demonstrate that neutrophil dysfunction occurs in P. falciparum malaria and support the relevance of the mechanistic studies in mice. Furthermore, they suggest the presence of a regulatory pathway to limit HO-1 induction by hemolysis in the context of infection and indicate new targets for therapeutic intervention to abrogate the susceptibility to bacterial infection in the context of hemolysis in humans. 
8322516	19930501	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Genes required for derepression of an extracellular glucoamylase gene, STA2, in the yeast Saccharomyces.	A diastatic strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae producing the STA2-encoded extracellular glucoamylase (GA) in a pronounced glucose-repressible fashion was used as a parent for generating mutants with reduced GA activity under normal conditions of derepression. In addition to mutations in STA2, five other recessive mutations were identified which fell into four complementation groups designated haf1 through haf4. RNA blot analysis suggested that the haf mutations confer defects in STA2 transcription. The haf mutants were pleiotropically defective in utilization of alternative carbon sources and resembled the snf (sucrose non-fermenting) mutants identified previously as unable to derepress the expression of the SUC2 gene encoding invertase. We present evidence strongly suggesting that haf1 = snf2, haf3 = snf1 and haf4 = snf5. By phenotypic criteria, the postulated HAF2 gene (which is none of the SNF genes tested) appears to be similar to SNF2, SNF5 and SNF6, and is possibly a non-redundant extension of this group of functionally related SNF genes. 
22112904	20111125	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	First report of a bifunctional chitinase/lysozyme produced by Bacillus pumilus SG2.	Bacillus pumilus SG2 isolated from high salinity ecosystem in Iran produces two chitinases (ChiS and ChiL) and secretes them into the medium. In this study, chiS and chiL genes were cloned in pQE-30 expression vector and were expressed in the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli strain M15. The recombinant proteins were purified using Ni-NTA column. The optimum pH and optimum temperature for enzyme activity of ChiS were pH 6, 50°C; those of ChiL were pH 6.5, 40°C. The purified chitinases showed antifungal activity against Fusarium graminearum, Rhizoctonia solani, Magnaporthe grisea, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Trichoderma reesei, Botrytis cinerea and Bipolaris sp. Moreover, purified ChiS was identified as chitinase/lysozyme, which are capable of degrading the chitin component of fungal cell walls and the peptidoglycan component of cell walls with many kinds of bacteria (Xanthomonas translucens pv. hordei, Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri, Bacillus licheniformis, E. coli C600, E. coli TOP10, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Pseudomonas putida). Strong homology was found between the three-dimensional structures of ChiS and a chitinase/lysozyme from Bacillus circulans WL-12. This is the first report of a bifunctional chitinase/lysozyme from B. pumilus. 
11514516	20010822	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Noncatalytic docking domains of cellulosomes of anaerobic fungi.	A method is presented for the specific isolation of genes encoding cellulosome components from anaerobic fungi. The catalytic components of the cellulosome of anaerobic fungi typically contain, besides the catalytic domain, mostly two copies of a 40-amino-acid cysteine-rich, noncatalytic docking domain (NCDD) interspaced by short linkers. Degenerate primers were designed to anneal to the highly conserved region within the NCDDs of the monocentric fungus Piromyces sp. strain E2 and the polycentric fungus Orpinomyces sp. strain PC-2. Through PCR using cDNA from Orpinomyces sp. and genomic DNA from Piromyces sp. as templates, respectively, 9 and 19 PCR products were isolated encoding novel NCDD linker sequences. Screening of an Orpinomyces sp. cDNA library with four of these PCR products resulted in the isolation of new genes encoding cellulosome components. An alignment of the partial NCDD sequence information obtained and an alignment of database-accessible NCDD sequences, focusing on the number and position of cysteine residues, indicated the presence of three structural subfamilies within fungal NCDDs. Furthermore, evidence is presented that the NCDDs in CelC from the polycentric fungus Orpinomyces sp. strain PC-2 specifically recognize four proteins in a cellulosome preparation, indicating the presence of multiple scaffoldins. 
9487697	19980306	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression of Septoria lycopersici tomatinase in Cladosporium fulvum: effects on compatible and incompatible interactions with tomato seedlings.	The anti-fungal, steroidal, glycoalkaloid saponin, alpha-tomatine, is present in uninfected tomato plants in substantial concentrations, and may contribute to the protection of tomato plants against attack by phytopathogenic fungi. In general, successful fungal pathogens of tomato are more resistant to alpha-tomatine in vitro than fungi that do not infect this plant. For a number of tomato pathogens, this resistance has been associated with the ability to detoxify alpha-tomatine through the action of enzymes known as tomatinases. In contrast, the biotrophic tomato pathogen Cladosporium fulvum is sensitive to alpha-tomatine and is unable to detoxify this saponin. This paper describes the effects of heterologous expression of the cDNA encoding tomatinase from the necrotroph Septoria lycopersici in two different physiological races of C. fulvum. Tomatinase-producing C. fulvum transformants showed increased sporulation on cotyledons of susceptible tomato lines. They also caused more extensive infection of seedlings of resistant tomato lines. Thus, alpha-tomatine may contribute to the ability of tomato to restrict the growth of C. fulvum in both compatible and incompatible interactions. 
12079386	20020625	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The structure of an allosamidin complex with the Coccidioides immitis chitinase defines a role for a second acid residue in substrate-assisted mechanism.	Allosamidin is a known inhibitor of class 18 chitinases. We show that allosamidin is a competitive inhibitor of the fungal chitinase CiX1 from Coccidioides immitis, with a K(i) of 60 nM. We report the X-ray structure of the complex and show that upon inhibitor binding the side-chain of Asp169 rotates to form an ion pair with the oxazolinium cation. The mechanism of action is thought to involve protonation of the leaving group by Glu171 and substrate assistance by the sugar acetamido moiety to form an oxazoline-like intermediate. We converted both amino acid residues to the corresponding amide and found that each mutation effectively abolishes enzyme activity. X-ray structures show the mutant enzymes retain the basic wild-type structure and that the loss of mutant activity is due to their altered chemical properties. The high affinity of allosamidin, and its similarity to the putative reaction intermediate, suggests it is a transition state analog. This helps validate our contention that the role of Asp169 is to electrostatically stabilize the reaction transition state. 
19759864	20090918	Bioinformation	D016428 	Study of codon bias perspective of fungal xylanase gene by multivariate analysis.	Fungal xylanases has important applications in food, baking, pulp and paper industries in addition to various other industries. Xylanases are produced extensively by both bacterial and fungal sources and has tremendous potential of being active at extremes of temperature and pH. In the present study an effort has been made to explore the codon bias perspective of this potential enzyme using bioinformatics tools. Multivariate analysis has been used as a tool to study codon bias perspectives of xylanases. It was further observed that the codon usage of xylanases genes from different fungal sources is not similar and to reveal this phenomenon the relative synonymous codon usage (RSCU) and base composition variation in fungal xylanase genes were also studied. The codon biasing data like GC content at third position (GC(3S)), effective codon number (N(C)), codon adaptive index (CAI) were further analyzed with statistical softwares like Sigma1plot 9.0 and Systat 11.0. Furthermore, study of translation selection was also performed to verify the influences of codon usage variation among the 94 xylanase genes. In the present study xylanase gene from 12 organisms were analyzed and codon usages of all xylanases from each organism were compared separately. Analysis indicates biased codon among all 12 fungi taken for study with Aspergillus nidulans, Chaetomium globosum, Aspergillus terreus and Aspergillus clavatus showing maximum biasing. N(C) plot and correspondence analysis on relative synonymous codon usage indicate that mutation bias and translation selection influences codon usage variation in fungal xylanase gene. To reveal the relative synonymous codon usage and base composition variation in xylanase, 94 genes from 12 fungi were used as model system. 
9720251	19980828	Chem._Phys._Lipids	D016428 	Anatomy of lipase binding sites: the scissile fatty acid binding site.	Shape and physico-chemical properties of the scissile fatty acid binding sites of six lipases and two serine esterases were analyzed and compared in order to understand the molecular basis of substrate specificity. All eight serine esterases and lipases have similar architecture and catalytic mechanism of ester hydrolysis, but different substrate specificities for the acyl moiety. Lipases and esterases differ in the geometry of their binding sites, lipases have a large, hydrophobic scissile fatty acid binding site, esterases like acetylcholinesterase and bromoperoxidase have a small acyl binding pocket, which fits exactly to their favorite substrates. The lipases were subdivided into three sub-groups: (1) lipases with a hydrophobic, crevice-like binding site located near the protein surface (lipases from Rhizomucor and Rhizopus); (2) lipases with a funnel-like binding site (lipases from Candida antarctica, Pseudomonas and mammalian pancreas and cutinase); and (3) lipases with a tunnel-like binding site (lipase from Candida rugosa). The length of the scissile fatty acid binding site varies considerably among the lipases between 7.8 A in cutinase and 22 A in Candida rugosa and Rhizomucor miehei lipase. Location and properties of the scissile fatty acid binding sites of all lipases of known structure were characterized. Our model also identifies the residues which mediate chain length specificity and thus may guide protein engineering of lipases for changed chain length specificity. The model was supported by published experimental data on the chain length specificity profile of various lipases and on mutants of fungal lipases with changed fatty acid chain length specificity. 
22048567	20111104	Eur._Biophys._J.	D016428 	Effect of pH and temperature on the global compactness, structure, and activity of cellobiohydrolase Cel7A from Trichoderma harzianum.	Due to its elevated cellulolytic activity, the filamentous fungus Trichoderma harzianum (T. harzianum) has considerable potential in biomass hydrolysis application. Cellulases from Trichoderma reesei have been widely used in studies of cellulose breakdown. However, cellulases from T. harzianum are less-studied enzymes that have not been characterized biophysically and biochemically as yet. Here, we examined the effects of pH and temperature on the secondary and tertiary structures, compactness, and enzymatic activity of cellobiohydrolase Cel7A from T. harzianum (Th Cel7A) using a number of biophysical and biochemical techniques. Our results show that pH and temperature perturbations affect Th Cel7A stability by two different mechanisms. Variations in pH modify protonation of the enzyme residues, directly affecting its activity, while leading to structural destabilization only at extreme pH limits. Temperature, on the other hand, has direct influence on mobility, fold, and compactness of the enzyme, causing unfolding of Th Cel7A just above the optimum temperature limit. Finally, we demonstrated that incubation with cellobiose, the product of the reaction and a competitive inhibitor, significantly increased the thermal stability of Th Cel7A. Our studies might provide insights into understanding, at a molecular level, the interplay between structure and activity of Th Cel7A at different pH and temperature conditions. 
19445172	20090519	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D016428 D013485 	[Chitinase B from Bacillus thuringiensis enhancing potential and its antagonism and insecticidal].	We studied the characteristics of chitinase B (ChiB) from Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. colmeri 15A3 (Bt 15A3) and evaluated its antagonism and insecticidal potential. ChiB was expressed in Escherichia coli. Expression product was purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation, dialysis and Sephadex G-200 gel filtration chromatography. The molecular mass of ChiB was directly estimated by zymogram after sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacryamide gel electroresis (SDS-PAGE). The proteins with different molecular weight were identified by mass spectrum (MS) and analyzed through bioinformatics. We studied some metal ions' impacts on chitinase activity; optimal temperature, pH and its stability at different temperature and pH. We also studied the inhibition effects on sporangia germination of fungi and the synergistic effects of ChiB on larvicidal activity. The molecular mass of ChiB was estimated as 70 kDa by zymogram. The protein with 64 kDa was the product of C-terminal degradation of ChiB in E. coli. Chitinase activity was improved by Fe3+ and inhibited by Zn2+ and Ag2+. The optimal temperature for ChiB was 60 C and the optimal pH was 5.0. The enzyme was quite stable at temperature below 60 degrees C and pH between 4.0 and 8.0. ChiB inhibited sporangia germination and the IC50 (50% inhibited concentration) was about 4 microg/mL. Moreover, the bioassays showed that ChiB could reduce the LC50 (50% lethal concentration) of the crystal protein of Bt. against Spodoptera exigua and Helicoverpa armigera larvae by approximately 26% and 30%. ChiB was not only stable, but also with good antagonism and insecticidal activity. 
15819888	20050412	FEBS_J.	D016428 D013485 	Structures of Phanerochaete chrysosporium Cel7D in complex with product and inhibitors.	The cellobiohydrolase Pc_Cel7D is the major cellulase produced by the white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium, constituting approximately 10% of the total secreted protein in liquid culture on cellulose. The enzyme is classified into family 7 of the glycoside hydrolases and, like other family members, catalyses cellulose hydrolysis with net retention of the anomeric carbon configuration. Previous work described the apo structure of the enzyme. Here we investigate the binding of the product, cellobiose, and several inhibitors, i.e. lactose, cellobioimidazole, Tris/HCl, calcium and a thio-linked substrate analogue, methyl 4-S-beta-cellobiosyl-4-thio-beta-cellobioside (GG-S-GG). The three disaccharides bind in the glucosyl-binding subsites +1 and +2, close to the exit of the cellulose-binding tunnel/cleft. Pc_Cel7D binds to lactose more strongly than cellobiose, while the opposite is true for the homologous Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase Tr_Cel7A. Although both sugars bind Pc_Cel7D in a similar fashion, the different preferences can be explained by varying interactions with nearby loops. Cellobioimidazole is bound at a slightly different position, displaced approximately 2 A toward the catalytic centre. Thus the Pc_Cel7D complexes provide evidence for two binding modes of the reducing-end cellobiosyl moiety; this conclusion is confirmed by comparison with other available structures. The combined results suggest that hydrolysis of the glycosyl-enzyme intermediate may not require the prior release of the cellobiose product from the enzyme. Further, the structure obtained in the presence of both GG-S-GG and cellobiose revealed electron density for Tris at the catalytic centre. Inhibition experiments confirm that both Tris and calcium are effective inhibitors at the conditions used for crystallization. 
16230011	20051019	Bioresour._Technol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	High-level of xylanase production by the thermophilic Paecilomyces themophila J18 on wheat straw in solid-state fermentation.	The production of extracellular xylanase by a newly isolated thermophilic fungus, Paecilomyces themophila J18, on the lignocellulosic materials was studied in solid-state fermentation (SSF). The strain grew well at 50 degrees C and produced a high-level of xylanase activity using the selected lignocellulosic materials, especially wheat straw. Production of xylanase by P. themophila J18 on wheat straw was enhanced by optimizing the particle size of wheat straw, nitrogen source, initial moisture level, growth temperature and initial pH of the culture medium. Under the optimized conditions, yield as high as 18,580 Ug(-1) of carbon source of xylanase was achieved. No CMCase activity was observed. The xylanase exhibited remarkable stability and retained more than 50% of its original activity at 70 degrees C for 4h at pH 7.0-8.0. Therefore, P. themophila J18 could to be a promising microorganism for thermostable, cellulase-free xylanase production in SSF. 
12602898	20030227	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of transgenic rice plants over-expressing the stress-inducible beta-glucanase gene Gns1.	The Gns1 gene of rice (Oryza sativa L. japonica) encodes 1,3;1,4-beta glucanase (EC 3.2.1.73), which hydrolyzes 1,3;1,4-beta-glucosidic linkages on 1,3;1,4-beta-glucan, an important component of cell walls in the Poaceae family. RNA and protein gel blot analyses demonstrated that blast disease or dark treatment induced the expression of the Gns1 gene. To assess the function of the Gns1 gene in disease resistance, we characterized transgenic rice plants constitutively expressing the Gns1 gene. The introduced Gns1 gene was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter and its products were found in the apoplast and accumulated in up to 0.1% of total soluble protein in leaves. Although transgenic plants showed stunted growth and impaired root formation, fertility, germination, and coleoptile elongation appeared unaffected compared to non-transgenic control plants, indicating that Gns1 does not play a crucial role in rice germination and coleoptile elongation. When transgenic plants were inoculated with virulent blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea), they developed many resistant-type lesions on the inoculated leaf accompanying earlier activation of defense-related genes PR-1 and PBZ1 than in control plants. Transgenic plants spontaneously produced brown specks, similar in appearance to those reported for an initiation type of disease-lesion-mimic mutants, on the third and fourth leaves and occasionally on older leaves without inoculation of pathogens. Expression of the two defense-related genes was drastically increased after the emergence of the lesion-mimic phenotype. 
22806195	20120719	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of a xylose-stimulated β-glucosidase and a cellulase-free thermostable xylanase by the thermophilic fungus Humicola brevis var. thermoidea under solid state fermentation.	Humicola brevis var. thermoidea cultivated under solid state fermentation in wheat bran and water (1:2 w/v) was a good producer of β-glucosidase and xylanase. After optimization using response surface methodology the level of xylanase reached 5,791.2 ± 411.2 U g(-1), while β-glucosidase production was increased about 2.6-fold, reaching 20.7 ± 1.5 U g(-1). Cellulase levels were negligible. Biochemical characterization of H. brevis β-glucosidase and xylanase activities showed that they were stable in a wide pH range. Optimum pH for β-glucosidase and xylanase activities were 5.0 and 5.5, respectively, but the xylanase showed 80 % of maximal activity when assayed at pH 8.0. Both enzymes presented high thermal stability. The β-glucosidase maintained about 95 % of its activity after 26 h in water at 55 °C, with half-lives of 15.7 h at 60 °C and 5.1 h at 65 °C. The presence of xylose during heat treatment at 65 °C protected β-glucosidase against thermal inactivation. Xylanase maintained about 80 % of its activity after 200 h in water at 60 °C. Xylose stimulated β-glucosidase activity up to 1.7-fold, at 200 mmol L(-1). The notable features of both xylanase and β-glucosidase suggest that H. brevis crude culture extract may be useful to compose efficient enzymatic cocktails for lignocellulosic materials treatment or paper pulp biobleaching. 
1886523	19910611	Microbiol._Rev.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Domains in microbial beta-1, 4-glycanases: sequence conservation, function, and enzyme families.	Several types of domain occur in beta-1, 4-glycanases. The best characterized of these are the catalytic domains and the cellulose-binding domains. The domains may be joined by linker sequences rich in proline or hydroxyamino acids or both. Some of the enzymes contain repeated sequences up to 150 amino acids in length. The enzymes can be grouped into families on the basis of sequence similarities between the catalytic domains. There are sequence similarities between the cellulose-binding domains, of which two types have been identified, and also between some domains of unknown function. The beta-1, 4-glycanases appear to have arisen by the shuffling of a relatively small number of progenitor sequences. 
16664778	19860501	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Responses of cultured parsley cells to elicitors from phytopathogenic fungi : timing and dose dependency of elicitor-induced reactions.	Cultured parsley cells (Petroselinum crispum) responded to treatment with heat-released soluble cell-wall fragments (elicitors) from several different phytopathogenic fungi by forming coumarin derivatives (phytoalexins). This response was preceded in all cases by large but transient increases in the activities of two enzymes of general phenylpropanoid metabolism, phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and 4-coumarate:CoA ligase (4CL). The activities of two hydrolytic enzymes, chitinase and 1,3-beta-glucanase, also increased strongly in elicitor-treated cells, whereas the activities of three enzymes participating in primary metabolism were affected differently by the elicitor treatment. Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase increased, phosphofructokinase remained almost constant, and pyrophosphate:fructose-6-phosphate phosphotransferase declined sharply in activity. Different amounts of cell-wall preparations from various phytopathogenic fungi were required for maximum elicitor activity. While three oomycetes (Phytophthora spp.) yielded the most active elicitors studied (maximum coumarin accumulation at concentrations of about 10 microgram per milliliter), cell-wall preparations from an ascomycete and three deuteromycetes gave comparable results only at 10 to 100 times higher concentrations. Optimal induction of PAL, 4CL, and chitinase with Phytophthora elicitor required only about 1 microgram per milliliter, whereas 1,3-beta-glucanase induction showed a dose dependence similar to that observed for coumarins. The elicitor concentration had pronounced effects not only on the extent, but also on the timing of all induced reactions. 
7765573	19941115	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	On the safety of Trichoderma reesei.	Trichoderma reesei has a long history of safe use in industrial-scale enzyme production. Applications of cellulases and xylanases produced by this fungus are found in food, animal feed, pharmaceutical, textile and pulp and paper industries. T. reesei is non-pathogenic for man and it has been shown not to produce fungal toxins or antibiotics under conditions used for enzyme production. During recent years genetic engineering techniques have also been used to improve the industrial production strains of T. reesei and, in addition, considerable experience of safe use of recombinant T. reesei strains in industrial scale has accumulated. Thus, T. reesei can be generally considered not only a safe production organism of its natural enzymes but also a safe host for other harmless gene products. 
21656807	20110610	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Cellulases from psychrophilic microorganisms: a review.	Cellulases are hydrolytic enzymes that catalyze total hydrolysis of cellulose into sugars. Cellulases are produced by various groups of microorganisms and animals; however, psychrophiles are the ideal candidates for the production of enzymes active at low temperature and stable under alkaline conditions, in the presence of oxidants and detergents, which are in large demand as laundry additives. The cellulases from psychrophiles also find application in environmental bioremediation, food industry and molecular biology. Research work on cellulase has been done over the last six decades, but there is no exclusive review available on the cellulases from psychrophiles. This review is an attempt to fill this gap by providing all the relevant information exclusively for cellulases from psychrophiles, with a focus on the present status of knowledge on their activity, molecular characteristics, gene cloning, statistical experimental designs, crystal structure, and strategies for the improvement of psychrophilic cellulases. 
9090797	19970401	Steroids	D016428 D013485 	The estrogenic and antiestrogenic activities of phytochemicals with the human estrogen receptor expressed in yeast.	We have used the expression of the human estrogen receptor (hER) and two estrogen response elements linked to the lacZ gene in yeast (YES) to study the estrogenic and antiestrogenic activities of various phytochemicals. Coumestrol, alpha-zearalenol, or genistein could produce beta-galactosidase activity comparable to estradiol, but these required concentrations 100 to 1000-fold greater than estradiol. These compounds did not possess antiestrogenic activity. Narigenin, kaempferide, phloretin, biochanin A, flavone, or chrysin only partially induced beta-galactosidase activity in the YES at any concentration tested. When narigenin, kaempferide, or phloretin was given concurrently with estradiol, the estradiol-dependent beta-galactosidase activity was not inhibited by more than 50%. However, biochanin A, flavone, or chrysin could inhibit the activity of estradiol in a dose-response manner with IC50 values of 500 nM, 2 microM, and 10 microM, respectively. Combinations of biochanin A, chrysin, and flavone decreased estradiol-dependent beta-galactosidase activity in an additive fashion. Similar to the antiestrogens tamoxifen or ICI 182, 780, the antiestrogenic activity of these compounds with the exception of chrystin involved the disruption of hER dimerization, as demonstrated in the yeast two-hybrid system. Biochanin A, chrysin, or flavone were less effective in inhibiting the activity of an estrogenic polychlorinated biphenyl than they were inhibiting the activity of estradiol. Interestingly, this latter group of antiestrogenic phytocompounds did not inhibit the estrogenic activity of such phytochemicals as coumestrol or genistein. These results suggest that the antiestrogenic activity of biochanin A and flavone occurs by a mechanism similar to tamoxifen or ICI 182,780. Moreover, it seems that phytochemicals functioning as antiestrogens do not inhibit the activity of all estrogenic chemicals to the same extent. This suggests that conformational changes induced by different estrogens bound to the hER may regulate the antiestrogenic activity of a compound. 
20406453	20100422	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D003160 D016428 	The intra- and extracellular proteome of Aspergillus niger growing on defined medium with xylose or maltose as carbon substrate.	The filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger is well-known as a producer of primary metabolites and extracellular proteins. For example, glucoamylase is the most efficiently secreted protein of Aspergillus niger, thus the homologous glucoamylase (glaA) promoter as well as the glaA signal sequence are widely used for heterologous protein production. Xylose is known to strongly repress glaA expression while maltose is a potent inducer of glaA promoter controlled genes. For a more profound understanding of A. niger physiology, a comprehensive analysis of the intra- and extracellular proteome of Aspergillus niger AB1.13 growing on defined medium with xylose or maltose as carbon substrate was carried out using 2-D gel electrophoresis/Maldi-ToF and nano-HPLC MS/MS. The intracellular proteome of A. niger growing either on xylose or maltose in well-aerated controlled bioreactor cultures revealed striking similarities. In both cultures the most abundant intracellular protein was the TCA cycle enzyme malate-dehydrogenase. Moreover, the glycolytic enzymes fructose-bis-phosphate aldolase and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate-dehydrogenase and the flavohemoglobin FhbA were identified as major proteins in both cultures. On the other hand, enzymes involved in the removal of reactive oxygen species, such as superoxide dismutase and peroxiredoxin, were present at elevated levels in the culture growing on maltose but only in minor amounts in the xylose culture. The composition of the extracellular proteome differed considerably depending on the carbon substrate. In the secretome of the xylose-grown culture, a variety of plant cell wall degrading enzymes were identified, mostly under the control of the xylanolytic transcriptional activator XlnR, with xylanase B and ferulic acid esterase as the most abundant ones. The secretome of the maltose-grown culture did not contain xylanolytic enzymes, instead high levels of catalases were found and glucoamylase (multiple spots) was identified as the most abundant extracellular protein. Surprisingly, the intracellular proteome of A. niger growing on xylose in bioreactor cultures differed more from a culture growing in shake flasks using the same medium than from the bioreactor culture growing on maltose. For example, in shake flask cultures with xylose as carbon source the most abundant intracellular proteins were not the glycolytic and the TCA cycle enzymes and the flavohemoglobin, but CipC, a protein of yet unknown function, superoxide dismutase and an NADPH dependent aldehyde reductase. Moreover, vacuolar proteases accumulated to higher and ER-resident chaperones and foldases to lower levels in shake flask compared to the bioreactor cultures. The utilization of xylose or maltose was strongly affecting the composition of the secretome but of minor influence on the composition of the intracellular proteome. On the other hand, differences in culture conditions (pH control versus no pH control, aeration versus no aeration and stirring versus shaking) have a profound effect on the intracellular proteome. For example, lower levels of ER-resident chaperones and foldases and higher levels of vacuolar proteases render shake flask conditions less favorable for protein production compared to controlled bioreactor cultures. 
8359681	19930715	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Expression of the exoglucanase gene in yeast and hyphal forms of Candida albicans.	The gene for the beta-(1,3) exoglucanase of Candida albicans was used as a probe to detect transcripts of related genes in C. albicans and in several other Candida species. A single homologous transcript was detected in all of the species tested. Expression of the exoglucanase gene in C. albicans was found to be coincident with the onset of growth and the levels of the transcript were proportional to the growth rate. Comparable levels of the transcript were produced during yeast and hyphal forms of growth. 
3781804	19860701	Ital._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Kinetic properties and mechanism of action of an intracellular beta-glucosidase from Thermoascus aurantiacus Miehe.	Intracellular beta-glucosidase is strongly inhibited by its own substrate p-nitrophenyl-beta-glucoside which displays high affinity for two binding sites. A non-productive complex is formed also by cellobiose, but its lower affinity results in a much lower inhibition. As shown by inhibition experiments performed with glucono-delta-lactone, the hydrolytic reaction proceeds through the formation of a carbonium ion, very similar in its half-chair conformation to the delta-lactone. Carboxylic groups (pK = 3.19) appear involved in the catalytic process together with a histidine residue (pK = 5.64): while the carboxylate ions stabilize the carbonium ion, the displaced group accepts a proton from the protonated imidazole. 
15046588	20040330	Biochem._Soc._Trans.	D016428 D013485 	Development of an ideal starch saccharification process using amylolytic enzymes from thermophiles.	The extensive efforts to screen thermophilic fungi and bacteria, isolated from various environmental samples, have resulted in the selection of Thermomucor indicae-seudaticae, Geobacillus thermoleovorans NP33 and G. thermoleovorans NP54 for the production of glucoamylase, amylopullulanase and alpha-amylase, respectively. Submerged and solid-state fermentation processes were optimized for maximizing the secretion of glucoamylase by T. indicae-seudaticae. The production of amylopullulanase and alpha-amylase by NP33 and NP54 in submerged fermentation was also optimized. Glucoamylase was optimally active at pH 7.0 and 60 degrees C and was shown to saccharify soluble as well as raw starches. Amylopullulanase and alpha-amylase exhibited optima at pH 7.0 and 100 degrees C and saccharified starch efficiently. Differential inhibition and action on mixed substrates clearly suggested that there are two separate active sites for alpha-amylase and pullulanase activities of amylopullulanase. Both alpha-amylase and amylopullulanase are high maltose-forming and Ca(2+)-independent. These amylolytic enzymes have been shown to be useful in starch saccharification alone and in combination. 
11958628	20020418	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013486 	Chemical composition and enzymatic degradability of xylem and nonxylem walls isolated from alfalfa internodes.	During plant maturation, degradability of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) stems declines due to accumulation of highly lignified xylary tissue. Xylem and nonxylem tissues dissected from lower alfalfa internodes were analyzed for cell wall constituents and degradability. Cell walls comprised 740 mg g(-1) of xylem and 533 mg g(-1) of nonxylem tissues. Xylem tissues contributed about 60% of the cell wall mass in internodes. Xylem walls contained 28% lignin, 4% pectin, 29% hemicellulose, and 39% cellulose as compared to 15% lignin, 25% pectin, 30% hemicellulose, and 30% cellulose in nonxylem walls. Fungal enzymes hydrolyzed 22 and 73% of the structural carbohydrates in xylem and nonxylem walls, respectively. In both cell wall fractions, the release of xylose was 56-90% lower than that of other sugars, indicating that lignin preferentially restricted xylan degradation in secondary walls and xyloglucan degradation in primary walls. Elucidation of lignin-xylose interactions may reveal strategies for improving fiber degradability of alfalfa. 
10561593	19991124	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Alpha-complemented beta-galactosidase. An in vivo model substrate for the molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 90 in yeast.	Intracistronic complementation of N-terminally truncated beta-galactosidase mutants such as M15 by coexpressed alpha-peptide was originally discovered in Escherichia coli and exploited for plasmid cloning as the well-known blue-white screening method. We show here that alpha-complementation also works in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and that it can be used as a simple nonselective enzymatic marker for a variety of in vivo studies, for example, on the role of molecular chaperones in protein folding and assembly. To be able to induce alpha-complementation post-translationally, we have constructed a hormone-inducible alpha-peptide by fusion of the DNA encoding the alpha-peptide to that of to the hormone binding domain of the estrogen receptor. The accumulation of both subunits, the alpha-peptide and M15, is severely compromised when they are expressed separately, presumably because their hydrophobic surfaces remain exposed. Moreover, alpha-complementation is defective in a strain of S. cerevisiae carrying a point mutant of the molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 90. Heat-shock protein 90, which coprecipitates with M15, might be required in vivo to prevent the degradation of unassembled M15 and to hold it in an interaction-competent conformation. 
18424542	20080422	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Chitin hydrolysis by Listeria spp., including L. monocytogenes.	Listeria spp., including the food-borne pathogen Listeria monocytogenes, are ubiquitous microorganisms in the environment and thus are difficult to exclude from food processing plants. The factors that contribute to their multiplication and survival in nature are not well understood, but the ability to catabolize various carbohydrates is likely to be very important. One major source of carbon and nitrogen in nature is chitin, an insoluble linear beta-1,4-linked polymer of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc). Chitin is found in cell walls of fungi and certain algae, in the cuticles of arthropods, and in shells and radulae of molluscs. In the present study, we demonstrated that L. monocytogenes and other Listeria spp. are able to hydrolyze alpha-chitin. The chitinolytic activity is repressed by the presence of glucose in the medium, suggesting that chitinolytic activity is subjected to catabolite repression. Activity is also regulated by temperature and is higher at 30 degrees C than at 37 degrees C. In L. monocytogenes EGD, chitin hydrolysis depends on genes encoding two chitinases, lmo0105 (chiB) and lmo1883 (chiA), but not on a gene encoding a putative chitin binding protein (lmo2467). The chiB and chiA genes are phylogenetically related to various well-characterized chitinases. The potential biological implications of chitinolytic activity of Listeria are discussed. 
10915212	20000729	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 	Nucleotide sequence of alpha-galactosidase MEL gene from Zygosaccharomyces mrakii.	The region encompassing the alpha-galactosidase MELr gene was amplified from Zygosaccharomyces mrakii IFO 1835(T) by inverse-PCR and then sequenced. The nucleotide sequence of this region revealed a single open reading frame of 1410 bp encoding a 470 amino acid protein with a molecular weight of 51,909. The similarity of the deduced mature protein to other yeast alpha-galactosidases was 63.3% to Zygosaccharomyces cidri, 71.5% to Torulaspora delbrueckii, and 70. 7-73.9% to Saccharomyces species. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences are deposited in the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank database under Accession Number AB030209. 
20303251	20100323	Waste_Manag	D003160 D016428 	Changes in enzymatic activities and microbial properties in vermicompost of water hyacinth as affected by pre-composting and fungal inoculation: a comparative study of ergosterol and chitin for estimating fungal biomass.	In this experiment, three different fungal species, viz. Trichoderma viridae, Aspergillus niger and Phanerochaete chrysosporium, were inoculated in 7 day and 15 day partially decomposed water hyacinth to study their effect on enzymatic activities, microbial respiration and fungal biomass of the final stabilized product. The results suggested that increasing the duration of pre-composting from 7 days to 15 days did not show any significant effect on the activities of hydrolytic enzymes. Inoculation of fungi significantly (P < or = 0.05) increased cellulase, protease and acid and alkaline phosphatase activities. The highest value of ergosterol was recorded in A. niger-inoculated vermicomposts. Inoculation of P. chrysosporium in initial organic waste registered the highest chitin content in vermicompost. A comparison of fungal biomass and chitin content revealed a conversion factor of 2.628 with a standard deviation of 0.318. Due to significant correlation (r = 0.864), this conversion factor allows for the calculation of fungal biomass from chitin, which is comparatively more stable than ergosterol. 
15605243	20041218	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Differential location of alpha-expansin proteins during the accommodation of root cells to an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus.	alpha-Expansins are extracellular proteins that increase plant cell-wall extensibility. We analysed their pattern of expression in cucumber roots in the presence and in the absence of the mycorrhizal fungus, Glomus versiforme. The distribution of alpha-expansins was investigated by use of two polyclonal antibodies (anti-EXPA1 and anti-EXPA2, prepared against two different cucumber alpha-expansins) in immunoblotting, immunofluorescence, and immunogold experiments. Immunoblot results indicate the presence of a 30-kDa band specific for mycorrhizal roots. The two antibodies identify antigens with a different distribution in mycorrhizal roots: anti-EXPA1 labels the interface zone, but the plant cell walls only weakly. By contrast, the anti-EXPA2 labels only the plant cell walls. In order to understand the potential role of alpha-expansins during the accommodation of the fungus inside root cells, we prepared semi-thin sections to measure the size of cortical cells and the thickness of cortical cell walls in mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal root. Mycorrhizal cortical cells were significantly larger than non-mycorrhizal cells and had thicker cell walls. In double-labelling experiments with cellobiohydrolase-gold complex, we observed that cellulose was co-localized with alpha-expansins. Taken together, the results demonstrate that alpha-expansins are more abundant in the cucumber cell walls upon mycorrhizal infection; we propose that these wall-loosening proteins are directly involved in the accommodation of the fungus by infected cortical cells. 
38898	19790601	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulosic materials by Sclerotium rolfsii culture filtrate for sugar production.	The hydrolysis of purified celluloses (cotton, Avicel, Cellulose-123, Solka Floc SW40) and cellulosic wastes (rice straw, sugarcane bagasse, wood powders, paper factory effluents) by Sclerotium rolfsii CPC 142 culture filtrate was studied. Factors which effect saccharification such as pH, temperature, enzyme concentration, substrate concentration, produce inhibition, adsorption, and inactivation of enzyme and particle size were studied. Virtually no inhibition (less than 3%) of cellulose hydrolysis by the culture filtrate was observed by cellobiose and glucose up to 100 mg/mL. Filter paper degrading enzyme(s) (but neither carboxymethylcellulase nor beta-glucosidase) was adsorbed on cellulose. The n value in the S. rolfsii system was calculated to be 0.32 for Avicel P.H. 101 and 0.53 for alkali-treated (AT) rice straw indicating penetration of cellulase into AT rice straw. In batch experiments at 10% substrate level, solutions containing 6 to 7%, 3.8 to 4.7%, 4.0 to 5.1%, and 4.2 to 4.9% reducing sugars were produced in 24 to 48 from AT rice straw. AT bagasse, alkali - peracetic acid treated mesta wood and paper factory sedimented sludge effluent, respectively. The main constituent in the hydrolysate from cellulose was glucose with little or no cellobiose, probably due to the high cellobiase content in the culture filtrate. 
16177334	20050924	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013485 	Markers for host-induced gene expression in Trichophyton dermatophytosis.	Dermatophytes are adapted to infect keratinized tissues by their ability to utilize keratin as a nutrient source. Although there have been numerous reports that dermatophytes like Trichophyton sp. secrete proteolytic enzymes, virtually nothing is known about the patterns of gene expression in the host or even when the organisms are cultured on protein substrates in the absence of a host. We characterized the expression of an aminopeptidase gene, the Trichophyton mentagrophytes homolog of the Trichophyton rubrum Tri r 4 gene. The T. rubrum gene was originally isolated based on the ability of the protein encoded by it to induce immediate and delayed-type hypersensitivity in skin tests. T. mentagrophytes Tri m 4 is closely related to Tri r 4 (almost 94% identity at the protein level). Tri m 4 resembles other protease-encoding genes thought to be virulence factors (for example, DPP V of Aspergillus fumigatus). The Tri m 4 protein was detected immunochemically both in fungal extracts and in the culture medium. Expression of the Tri m 4 gene was induced severalfold when T. mentagrophytes was grown on keratin and elastin. Ex vivo, strong induction was observed after culture on blood plasma, but the use of homogenized skin did not result in a significant increase in Tri m 4 transcript levels. In order to identify additional genes encoding putative virulence factors, differential cDNA screening was performed. By this method, a fungal thioredoxin and a cellulase homolog were identified, and both genes were found to be strongly induced by skin extracellular matrix proteins. Induction by superficial (keratin) and deep (elastin) skin elements suggests that the products of these genes may be important in both superficial and deep dermatophytosis, and models for their function are proposed. Upregulation of several newly identified T. mentagrophytes genes on protein substrates suggests that these genes encode proteins which are relevant to the dermatophyte-skin interaction. 
15109737	20040428	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 	Production of an antifungal protein for control of Colletotrichum lagenarium by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens MET0908.	A plant pathogenic fungus, Colletotrichum lagenarium, causing watermelon anthracnose, was isolated from naturally infected leaves, stems, and fruits of watermelon. A bacterial strain, MET0908, showing a potent antifungal activity against C. lagenarium, was isolated from soil. An antifungal protein was purified by 30% ammonium sulfate saturation and concentrated using Centricon 10, DEAE-Sepharose(TM) Fast Flow column and Sephacryl S-100 gel filtration chromatography. The molecular weight of the purified protein was estimated as 40 kDa by SDS-PAGE. The purified protein was stable at 80 degrees C for 20 min and exhibited a broad spectrum of antifungal activity against various plant pathogenic fungi. Confocal microscopy image analysis and scanning electron microscopy showed that the protein acted on the cell wall of C. lagenarium. The purified antifungal protein exhibited beta-1,3-glucanase activity. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the purified protein was determined as Ser-Lys-Ile-x-Ile-Asn-Ile-Asn-Ile-x-Gln-Ala-Pro-Ala-Pro-x-Ala. A search of the sequence with NCBI BLAST showed no significant homology with any known proteins, suggesting that the purified protein may be novel. 
21048401	20101105	Yakugaku_Zasshi	D004740 D016428 D016454 	[Novel bioconversion systems using a yeast molecular display system].	The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been used for the process of fermentation as well as for studies in biochemistry and molecular biology as a eukaryotic model cell or tool for the analysis of gene functions. Thus, yeast is essential in industries and researches. Yeast cells have a cell wall, which is one characteristic that helps distinguish yeast cells from other eukaryotic cells such as mammalian cells. We have developed a molecular display system using the protein of the yeast cell wall as an anchor for foreign proteins. Yeast cells have been designed for use in sensing and metal adsorption, and have been used in vaccines and for screening novel proteins. Currently, yeast is used not only as a tool for analyzing gene or protein function but also in molecular display technology. The phage display system, which is at the forefront of molecular display technologies, is a powerful tool for screening ligands bound to a target molecule and for analyzing protein-protein interactions; however, in some cases, eukaryotic proteins are not easily expressed by this system. On the other hand, yeast cells have the ability to express eukaryotic proteins and proliferate; thus, these cells display various proteins. Yeast cells are more appropriate for white biotechnology. In this review, displays of enzymes that are important in bioconversion, such as lipases and β-glucosidases, are going to be introduced. 
8434909	19930201	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Inhibition of ruminal cellulose fermentation by extracts of the perennial legume cicer milkvetch (Astragalus cicer).	Cicer milkvetch (Astragalus cicer L.) is a perennial legume used as a pasture or rangeland plant for ruminants. A study was undertaken to determine whether reported variations in its ruminal digestibility may be related to the presence of an antinutritive material. In vitro fermentation of neutral detergent fiber (NDF) of cicer milkvetch by mixed rumen microflora was poorer than was the fermentation of NDF in alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.). Fermentation of cicer milkvetch NDF was improved by preextraction of the ground herbage with water for 3 h at 39 degrees C. Such water extracts selectively inhibited in vitro fermentation of pure cellulose by mixed ruminal microflora and by pure cultures of the ruminal bacteria Ruminococcus flavefaciens FD-1 and Fibrobacter succinogenes S85. Inhibition of the cellulose fermentation by mixed ruminal microflora was dependent upon the concentration of cicer milkvetch extract and was overcome upon prolonged incubation. Pure cultures exposed to the extract did not recover from inhibition, even after long incubation times, unless the inhibitory agent was removed (viz., by dilution of inhibited cultures into fresh medium). The extract did not affect the fermentation of cellobiose by R. flavefaciens but did cause some inhibition of cellobiose fermentation by F. succinogenes. Moreover, the extracts did not inhibit hydrolysis of crystalline cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, or p-nitrophenylcellobioside by supernatants of these pure cultures of cellulolytic bacteria or by a commercial cellulase preparation from the fungus Trichoderma reesei. The agent caused cellulose-adherent cells to detach from cellulose fibers, suggesting that the agent may act, at least in part, by disrupting the glycocalyx necessary for adherence to, and rapid digestion of, cellulose. 
10681571	20000222	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of the ace1 gene encoding a Cys(2)-His(2) transcription factor involved in regulation of activity of the cellulase promoter cbh1 of Trichoderma reesei.	A genetic selection method was developed for the cloning of positive-acting transcriptional regulatory genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The method was applied for the isolation of activators of Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina) cellulase genes. Activator genes were isolated from a T. reesei expression cDNA library on the basis of the ability of their translation products to activate transcription from the full-length T. reesei cbh1 promoter coupled to the S. cerevisiae HIS3 gene and to support the growth of the yeast colonies in the absence of histidine. Among the clones obtained was the ace1 gene encoding a novel polypeptide, ACEI, that contains three zinc finger motifs of Cys(2)-His(2) type. Possible ACEI homologues were found among expressed sequence tags of Aspergillus and Neurospora. The ability of ACEI to bind to the cbh1 promoter was further confirmed in the yeast one-hybrid system. In vitro binding and gel mobility shift assays revealed several binding sites for the ACEI protein in the cbh1 promoter. Disruption of the ace1 gene in T. reesei resulted in retarded growth of the fungus on a cellulose-containing medium, on which cellulases are normally highly expressed. 
23291620	20130108	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Xylanase gene transcription in Trichoderma reesei is triggered by different inducers representing different hemicellulosic pentose polymers.	The ascomycete Trichoderma reesei is a paradigm for the regulation and production of plant cell wall-degrading enzymes, including xylanases. Four xylanases, including XYN1 and XYN2 of glycosyl hydrolase family 11 (GH11), the GH10 XYN3, and the GH30 XYN4, were already described. By genome mining, we identified a fifth xylanase, XYN5, belonging to GH11. Transcriptional analysis reveals that the expression of all xylanases but xyn3 is induced by D-xylose, dependent on the cellulase and xylanase regulator XYR1 and negatively regulated by the carbon catabolite repressor CRE1. Impairment of D-xylose catabolism at the D-xylose reductase and xylitol dehydrogenase step strongly enhanced induction by D-xylose. Knockout of the L-xylulose reductase-encoding gene lxr3, which connects the D-xylose and L-arabinose catabolic pathways, had no effect on xylanase induction. Besides the induction by D-xylose, the T. reesei xylanases were also induced by L-arabinose, and this induction was also enhanced in knockout mutants in L-arabinose reductase (xyl1), L-arabitol dehydrogenase (lad1), and L-xylulose reductase (lxr3). Induction by L-arabinose was also XYR1 dependent. Analysis of intracellular polyols revealed accumulation of xylitol in all strains only during incubation with D-xylose and accumulation of L-arabitol only during incubation with L-arabinose. Induction by L-arabinose could be further stimulated by addition of D-xylose. We conclude that the expression of the T. reesei xylanases can be induced by both D-xylose and L-arabinose, but independently of each other and by using different inducing metabolites. 
12499406	20021225	Glycobiology	D016428 D013485 	Identification of glycan structure and glycosylation sites in cellobiohydrolase II and endoglucanases I and II from Trichoderma reesei.	Mass spectrometric techniques combined with enzymatic digestions were applied to determine the glycosylation profiles of cellobiohydrolase (CBH II) and endoglucanases (EG I, II) purified from filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. Electrospray mass spectrometry (ESMS) analyses of the intact cellulases revealed the microheterogeneity in glycosylation where glycoforms were spaced by hexose units. These analyses indicated that glycosylation accounted for 12-24% of the molecular mass and that microheterogeneity in both N- and O-linked glycans was observed for each glycoprotein. The identification of N-linked attachment sites was carried out by MALDI-TOF and capillary liquid chromatography-ESMS analyses of tryptic digests from each purified cellulase component with and without PNGase F incubation. Potential tryptic glycopeptide candidates were first detected by stepped orifice-voltage scanning and the glycan structure and attachment site were confirmed by tandem mass spectrometry. For purified CBH II, 74% of glycans found on Asn310 were high mannose, predominantly Hex(7-9)GlcNAc(2), whereas the remaining amount was single GlcNAc; Asn289 had 18% single GlcNAc occupancy, and Asn14 remained unoccupied. EG I presented N-linked glycans at two out of the six potential sites. The Asn56 contained a single GlcNAc residue, and Asn182 showed primarily a high-mannose glycan Hex(8)GlcNAc(2) with only 8% being occupied with a single GlcNAc. Finally, EG II presented a single GlcNAc residue at Asn103. It is noteworthy that the presence of a single GlcNAc in all cellulase enzymes investigated and the variability in site occupancy suggest the secretion of an endogenous endo H enzyme in cultures of T. reesei. 
21953631	20110929	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of an extracellular 24 kDa chitobiosidase from the mycoparasitic fungus Trichoderma saturnisporum.	A Trichoderma saturnisporum Hamill isolate GITX-Panog (C) exhibiting strong chitinolytic and antifungal activity against Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. dianthi, the causal agent of vascular wilt in carnation was used to purify extracellular chitobiosidase using Czapek-Dox broth amended with the fungal mycelium as the carbon source. The protein was purified by precipitation with ammonium sulphate, followed by DEAE-Cellulose anion-exchange and Sephacryl S-200 high resolution gel filtration chromatography. The purity of the enzyme was determined by SDS-PAGE, with an estimated molecular mass of 24 kDa. In native gel assay with 4-methylumbelliferyl -N,N ' diacetyl-β-D-chitobioside (4-Mu-(GluNAc)(2) , the purified chitobiosidase was visualized as single fluorescent band. Enzyme activity towards short oligomeric natural substrates indicated that the enzyme has properties that are characteristic to exochitinases. The enzyme was active up to 60 °C and at pH 4.0, and displayed maximum stability at 50 °C. Mn(2+) and Zn(2+) stimulated the enzyme activity by 63% and 41%, respectively. The K(m) and V(max) values of the purified enzyme for 4-Mu-(GluNAc)(2) were 338.9 μM ml(-1) and 0.119 μM ml(-1) min(-1) , respectively. This appears to be the first report of characterization of a chitobiosidase from antagonistic Trichoderma saturnisporum. 
6686646	19830901	Mikrobiologiia	D003160 D016428 	[Comparative study of the pullulans synthesized by Pollularia (Aureobasidium) pullulans strains of different ploidies].	Pullularia pullulans strains of different ploidy synthesize pullulans similar in their characteristics to those described in literature. These are glucans whose glucose residues are linked with alpha(1 leads to 4) and alpha(1 leads to 6) bonds in the proportion of 2.2:1. The pullulans differ from one another in their water solubility, molecular mass and in the ability to be cleaved by alpha-amylase and dextranase. The minor structural modifications of pullulan molecules in the polyploid strains as compared to the pullulan synthesized by the parent haploid culture are caused, apparently, by mutations induced with mitotic poisons. 
8400378	19930701	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	An acidic class III chitinase in sugar beet: induction by Cercospora beticola, characterization, and expression in transgenic tobacco plants.	An acidic chitinase (SE) was found to accumulate in leaves of sugar beet (Beta vulgaris) during infection with Cercospora beticola. Two isoforms, SE1 and SE2, with MW of 29 kDa and pI of approximately 3.0 were purified to homogeneity. SE2 is an endochitinase that also exhibits exochitinase activity, i.e., it is capable of hydrolyzing chito-oligosaccharides, including chitobiose, into N-acetyl-glucosamine. Partial amino acid sequence data for SE2 were used to obtain a cDNA clone by polymerase chain reaction. The clone was used to isolate a cDNA clone encoding SE2. The deduced amino acid sequence for SE2 is 58-67% identical to the class III chitinases from cucumber, Arabidopsis, and tobacco. A transient induction of SE2 mRNA during the early stages of infection with C. beticola is much stronger in tolerant plants than in susceptible plants. Transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) plants constitutively accumulate SE2 protein in the intercellular space of their leaves. In a preliminary infection experiment, the transgenic plants did not show increase in resistance against C. nicotianae. 
7968662	19940101	Microbios	D003160 D016428 	Sensitivity of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase to glucose and cyclic AMP in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Stationary phase cells from resting cultures of Schizosaccharomyces pombe, suspended in buffer, did not decrease fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FbPase) activity upon addition of glucose to the cell suspension. In contrast, the addition of glucose to cells from derepressed growing cultures resulted in a 4- to 5-fold reduction in FbPase activity within minutes after the addition of the sugar. This response was independent of protein synthesis, was accompanied by a rise in the cyclic AMP (cAMP) level and was concomitant with an increase in the activity of neutral trehalase. The addition of exogenous cAMP to these cells provoked a decrease in FbPase similar to that induced by glucose. The occurrence of a glucose-induced cAMP signal was not sufficient to trigger the decrease in FbPase activity, which appeared to require additional transduction elements not active in growth-arrested cells. In assays performed in vitro it was found that the enzyme activity was strongly inhibited by fructose-2,6-bisphosphate. 
15840932	20050421	Zhi_Wu_Sheng_Li_Yu_Fen_Zi_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Inducible expression of a promoter of the gene encoding barley beta-1, 3-glucanase isoenzyme GIII in transgenic rice].	A promoter of the gene encoding beta-1, 3-glucanase isoenzyme GIII was amplified from barley genomic DNA using PCR. The GIII gene promoter, designated P(GIII), was ligated upstream of the gus report gene and pGIII-gus fusion fragment was then cloned into a binary vector pCAMBIA1300 for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Taipei 309). PCR analyses indicated that the fusion gene was present in all T0 transgenic plants. The integration of the gene into rice genomic DNA was further confirmed by Southern blot. Histochemical staining and spectrofluorophotometric analyses of transgenic rice leaves showed that the GUS activity was increased after treatment with SA and fungal elicitor. Northern blot analysis also showed expression of such induction. Histochemical staining of T(1) rice seeds displayed marked GUS activity after induction with SA and elicitor, while no GUS activity was detected in untreated T(1) rice seeds. The results presented here strongly suggested that P(GIII) could be pathogen-inducible promoter. 
1032996	19761107	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013486 	Structural characterization of a glycoprotein cellulase, 1,4-beta-D-glucan cellobiohydrolase C from Trichoderma viride.	A glycoprotein enzyme, 1,4-beta-D-glucan cellobiohycrolase (EC 3.2.1.91) form C, was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity by a procedure which permitted isolation of gram quantities from a commercial Trichoderma viride culture filtrate preparation. Purified cellobiohydrolase C has an E1%/280 nm = 14.2 and degrades both microcrystalline and phosphoric acid-swollen cellulose to cellobiose. The cellobiohydrolase C contains 26.4, 4.8, 2.4 and 3.4 mol of mannose, glucose, galactose and glucosamine, respectively, per mol of enzyme (molecular weight, 48 400). Methylation analysis of cellobiohydrolase glycopeptides indicates an average carbohydrate chain length of two residues. Alkaline borohydride treatment of cellobiohydrolase C released neutral carbohydrate which is bound through an average of 16.7 O-glycosidic linkages to serine and threonine per molecule of enzyme. Glucosamine was not released from the protein by alkaline treatment. Analysis of alkaline borohydride-released carbohydrate by high pressure liquid chromatography demonstrated that an average enzyme molecule contains 8.8 mono-, 1.8 di-, 4.6 tri-, 1.2 tetra-, and 0.4 pentasaccharide chains. The linkages between the neutral monosaccharides are (1 leads to 6) as shown by gas chromatography - mass spectrometry of partially methylated residues. The (1 leads to 6) linkage is consistent with the stability of the linkages to alkaline conditions and the destruction of all neutral carbohydrate by periodate. Action of alpha-mannosidase indicates that some oligosaccharide chains contain alpha-mannose as the terminal residue. 
23280599	20130103	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Pressure assisted stabilization of biocatalysts at elevated temperatures: characterization by dynamic light scattering.	The effect of pressure, at elevated temperatures, is reported on the activity and stability of a thermophilic endo-β-glucanase from the filamentous fungus Talaromyces emersonii. The production of reduced sugars after treatment at different temperatures and pressures is used as a measure of the activity and stability of the enzyme. The activity of the enzyme is maintained to higher temperatures with increasing pressure. For example, the relative activity of endo-β-glucanase decreases to 30% after 4 h at 75°C and 1 bar, whereas it is preserved at 100% after 6 h at 75°C and 230 bar. High-pressure dynamic light scattering is used to characterize the hydrodynamic radius of the enzyme as a function of pressure, temperature, and time. At higher temperature the hydrodynamic radius increases with time, whereas increasing pressure suppresses this effect. Changes in the hydrodynamic radius are correlated with the activity measurements obtained at elevated pressures, since the changes in the hydrodynamic radius indicate structural changes of the enzyme, which cause the deactivation. 
19147106	20090117	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of a thermostable xylanase from the brown-rot fungus Laetiporus sulphureus.	A thermostable extracellular xylanase was purified and characterized from brown-rot basidiomycete Laetiporus sulphureus, cultivated on biologically pretreated Pinus densiflora biomass. After three consecutive purification steps using DEAE, Mono Q, and Superdex 75 columns, the xylanase specific activity was found to be 72.4 U/mg, nine fold higher than that of the crude culture solution, purity was 96%, and the molecular mass determined to be 69.3 kDa. The optimal pH and temperature for xylanase activity were 3.0 and 80 degrees C, respectively. Although activity of xylanase was highest at 80 degrees C, it showed highest thermostability at 60 degrees C, retaining approximately 97% of its relative activity following incubation for 4 h. In the presence of 5 mM solution of CaCl2, the relative xylanase activity increased by 35.9%; however, it decreased significantly in the presence of 10 mM solution of Cu2+. Among the xylan-based substrates tested, purified L. sulphureus xylanase showed the highest activity on beechwood xylan. Thin-layer chromatography (TLC) experiments revealed that purified L. sulphureus xylanase is an endoxylanase that hydrolyzes xylotriose, xylotetraose, and xylopentaose but not xylobiose. 
12843660	20030705	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning, sequencing, and heterologous expression of a cellobiohydrolase cDNA from the basidiomycete Corticium rolfsii.	From a Corticium rolfsii cDNA library, a clone homologous to other fungal cellobiohydrolase (CBH1) genes was isolated using the polymerase chain reaction. In the nucleotide sequence, one 1.6 kb long open reading frame coding for a polypeptide of 530 amino acid residues was detected which showed 64% identity with CBH1 of Phanerochaete chrysosporium. With expression of the 1.8 kb cDNA using the Aspergillus oryzae expression system, we detected microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel) hydrolyzing activity in the culture supernatant. The secreted protein, accompanied by the activity, was 89 kDa by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 
20609581	20100709	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Conversion of woody biomass into fermentable sugars by cellulase from Agaricus arvensis.	Agaricus arvensis, a newly isolated basidiomycetous fungus, was found to secrete efficient cellulases. The strain produced the highest endoglucanase (EG), cellobiohydrolase (CBH) and beta-glucosidase (BGL) activities of 0.3, 3.2 and 8U/mg-protein, respectively, with rice straw as the carbon source. Saccharification of the woody biomass with A. arvensis cellulase as the enzyme source released a high level of fermentable sugars. Enzymatic hydrolysis of the poplar biomass was optimized using the response surface methodology in order to study the influence of the variables (pH, temperature, cellulases concentration and substrate concentration). The enzyme and substrate concentrations were identified as the limiting factors for the saccharification of poplar wood biomass. A total reducing sugar level of 29g/L (293mg/g-substrate) was obtained at an enzyme concentration of 65FPU/g-substrate after optimization of the hydrolysis parameters. The model validation showed a good agreement between the experimental results and the predicted responses. A. arvensis could be a good candidate for the production of reducing sugars from a cellulosic biomass. 
10753447	20000408	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 	Increased heterologous protein production in Aspergillus niger fermentation through extracellular proteases inhibition by pelleted growth.	The dependence of filamentous fungal protease secretion on morphology was investigated by employing the recombinant Aspergillus niger strain AB4.1[pgpdAGLAGFP] which contains a gene for the glucoamylase-GFP (green fluorescence protein) fusion protein. Different inoculum levels were used to obtain different sizes of pellet or free mycelia. The extracellular protease activity of the cultures varied with the pellet size and decreased dramatically when the morphology was changed from free mycelia to pellets. The culture with an optimal pellet size of 1.6 mm was obtained from an inoculum of 4 x 10(6) spores/mL. It resulted in a specific protease activity of 158 units/L, only one-third of that in free mycelial growth, and a maximum specific GFP yield of 0.98 mg/g (cell mass) compared to 0. 29 mg/g for free mycelial growth with an inoculum of 10(7) spores/mL. The results indicate that this bioprocessing strategy can be effectively used to inhibit protease activity in filamentous fungal fermentation and thereby to enhance heterologous protein production. 
7668048	19950630	Yeast	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The S1, S2 and SGA1 ancestral genes for the STA glucoamylase genes all map to chromosome IX in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The polymorphic extracellular glucoamylase-encoding genes STA1 (chr. IV), STA2 (chr. II) and STA3 (chr. XIV), from Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. diastaticus probably evolved by genomic rearrangement of DNA regions (S1, S2 and SGA1) present in S. cerevisiae, and subsequent translocation to unlinked regions of chromosomal regions. S1, encoding a homologue to the threonine/serine-rich domain of STA glucoamylases (GAI-III), mapped to the right arm of chromosome IX. S2, encoding the hydrophobic leader peptide of GAI-III), was also mapped on the right arm of chromosome IX, next to S1, close to DAL81. The SGA1 sporulation-specific, intracellular glucoamylase-encoding gene is located on the left arm of chromosome IX, 32 kb proximal of HIS5. 
9061788	19970201	Proteins	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Automated docking of monosaccharide substrates and analogues and methyl alpha-acarviosinide in the glucoamylase active site.	Glucoamylase is an important industrial glucohydrolase with a large specificity range. To investigate its interaction with the monosaccharides D-glucose, D-mannose, and D-galactose and with the substrate analogues 1-deoxynojirimycin, D-glucono-1,5-lactone, and methyl alpha-acarviosinide, MM3(92)-optimized structures were docked into its active site using AutoDock 2.1. The results were compared to structures of glucoamylase complexes obtained by protein crystallography. Charged forms of some substrate analogues were also docked to assess the degree of protonation possessed by glucoamylase inhibitors. Many forms of methyl alpha-acarviosinide were conformationally mapped by using MM3(92), characterizing the conformational pH dependence found for the acarbose family of glucosidase inhibitors. Their significant conformers, representing the most common states of the inhibitor, were used as initial structures for docking. This constitutes a new approach for the exploration of binding modes of carbohydrate chains. Docking results differ slightly from x-ray crystallographic data, the difference being of the order of the crystallographic error. The estimated energetic interactions, even though agreeing in some cases with experimental binding kinetics, are only qualitative due to the large approximations made by AutoDock force field. 
19922433	20091120	FEMS_Microbiol._Ecol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Chitinase genes revealed and compared in bacterial isolates, DNA extracts and a metagenomic library from a phytopathogen-suppressive soil.	Soil that is suppressive to disease caused by fungal pathogens is an interesting source to target for novel chitinases that might be contributing towards disease suppression. In this study, we screened for chitinase genes, in a phytopathogen-suppressive soil in three ways: (1) from a metagenomic library constructed from microbial cells extracted from soil, (2) from directly extracted DNA and (3) from bacterial isolates with antifungal and chitinase activities. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of chitinase genes revealed differences in amplified chitinase genes from the metagenomic library and the directly extracted DNA, but approximately 40% of the identified chitinase terminal restriction fragments (TRFs) were found in both sources. All of the chitinase TRFs from the isolates were matched to TRFs in the directly extracted DNA and the metagenomic library. The most abundant chitinase TRF in the soil DNA and the metagenomic library corresponded to the TRF(103) of the isolate Streptomyces mutomycini and/or Streptomyces clavifer. There were good matches between T-RFLP profiles of chitinase gene fragments obtained from different sources of DNA. However, there were also differences in both the chitinase and the 16S rRNA gene T-RFLP patterns depending on the source of DNA, emphasizing the lack of complete coverage of the gene diversity by any of the approaches used. 
10455498	19990824	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production, purification and characterization of a constitutive intracellular alpha-galactosidase from the thermophilic fungus Humicola sp.	The thermophilic fungus Humicola sp constitutively produces intracellular alpha-galactosidase (1.33 U mg-1 protein) within 48 h at 45 degrees C in shaken flasks, when grown in a medium containing 7% wheat bran extract as a carbon source and 0.5% yeast extract as a nitrogen source. The enzyme has been purified to homogeneity by ultrafiltration, ethanol precipitation, DEAE cellulose and Sephacryl S-300 chromatography with a 124-fold increase in specific activity and 29.5% recovery. The molecular weight of the enzyme is 371.5 kDa by gel filtration on Sephacryl S-300 and 87.1 kDa by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The enzyme has an optimum temperature of 65 degrees C and an optimum pH of 5.0. Humicola alpha-galactosidase is a glycoprotein with 8.3% carbohydrate content and is acidic in nature with a pI of 4.0. The KmS for p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside, O-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside, raffinose and stachyose are 0.279, 0.40, 1.45 and 1.42 mM respectively. The enzyme activity was strongly inhibited by Ag+ and Hg2+. D-Galactose inhibited alpha-galactosidase competitively and the inhibition constant (Ki) for galactose was 11 mM. 
15983011	20050629	J._Exp._Bot.	D016428 D013485 	Involvement of ethylene biosynthesis and perception in the susceptibility of citrus fruits to Penicillium digitatum infection and the accumulation of defence-related mRNAs.	Citrus fruits infected with the fungus Penicillium digitatum substantially increase the production of the plant hormone ethylene. In this study, the regulation of ethylene biosynthesis in Citrus sinensis-infected fruits and its putative involvement in an active defence response against P. digitatum infection is examined. Ethylene production is demonstrated as being the result of the co-ordinated and differential up-regulation of at least three ethylene biosynthetic genes: ACS1, ACS2, and ACO. Blocking ethylene perception by 1-MCP resulted in an increased ethylene production and ACS2 expression during infection and mechanical wounding, suggesting that this gene is negatively regulated by ethylene. ACO expression was induced by ethylene in the absence of wounding or infection, although further results indicate that its induction during the course of infection may not be primarily mediated by ethylene. Treatment with 1-MCP also increased susceptibility to Penicillium decay, showing an involvement of ethylene perception in promoting defence responses in citrus fruits. The changes in the expression of two defence-related genes up-regulated during infection were also studied: the ones coding for phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and an acidic class II chitinase (ACR311). The onset of PAL expression after mechanical wounding or inoculation was not changed in 1-MCP-pretreated fruits, while its later increase during the course of infection was abolished. Chitinase gene induction was more related to mechanical damage and was partially repressed by ethylene. These studies indicate distinct possible regulatory mechanisms of plant fruit defence genes in the context of fungal infection and ethylene perception. 
15917612	20050527	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013485 	Effect of media composition and growth conditions on production of beta-glucosidase by Aspergillus niger C-6.	The hydrolytic activity of fungal originated beta-glucosidase is exploited in several biotechnological processes to increase the rate and extent of saccharification of several cellulosic materials by hydrolyzing the cellobiose which inhibits cellulases. In a previous presentation, we reported the screening and liquid fermentation with Aspergillus niger, strain C-6 for beta-glucosidase production at shake flask cultures in a basal culture medium with mineral salts, corn syrup liquor, and different waste lignocellulosic materials as the sole carbon source obtaining the maximum enzymatic activity after 5-6 d of 8.5 IU/mL using native sugar cane bagasse. In this work we describe the evaluation of fermentation conditions: growth temperature, medium composition, and pH, also the agitation and aeration effects for beta-glucosidase production under submerged culture using a culture media with corn syrup liquor (CSL) and native sugar cane bagasse pith as the sole carbon source in a laboratory fermenter. The maximum enzyme titer of 7.2 IU/mL was obtained within 3 d of fermentation. This indicates that beta-glucosidase productivity by Aspergillus niger C-6 is function of culture conditions, principally temperature, pH, culture medium conditions, and the oxygen supply given in the bioreactor. Results obtained suggest that this strain is a potential microorganism that can reach a major level of enzyme production and also for enzyme characterization. 
19057825	20081206	Mem._Inst._Oswaldo_Cruz	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression and biochemical characterization of an alpha1,2-mannosidase encoded by the Candida albicans MNS1 gene.	Protein glycosylation pathways, commonly found in fungal pathogens, offer an attractive new area of study for the discovery of antifungal targets. In particular, these post-translational modifications are required for virulence and proper cell wall assembly in Candida albicans, an opportunistic human pathogen. The C. albicans MNS1 gene is predicted to encode a member of the glycosyl hydrolase family 47, with alpha1,2-mannosidase activity. In order to characterise its activity, we first cloned the C. albicans MNS1 gene into Escherichia coli, then expressed and purified the enzyme. The recombinant Mns1 was capable of converting a Man9GlcNAc2 N-glycan core into Man8GlcNAc2 isomer B, but failed to process a Man5GlcNAc2-Asn N-oligosaccharide. These properties are similar to those displayed by Mns1 purified from C. albicansmembranes and strongly suggest that the enzyme is an alpha1,2-mannosidase that is localised to the endoplasmic reticulum and involved in the processing of N-linked mannans. Polyclonal antibodies specifically raised against recombinant Mns1 also immunoreacted with the soluble alpha1,2-mannosidases E-I and E-II, indicating that Mns1 could share structural similarities with both soluble enzymes. Due to the high degree of similarity between the members of family 47, it is conceivable that these antibodies may recognise alpha1,2-mannosidases in other biological systems as well. 
8850131	19951001	Rev._Argent._Microbiol.	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Isolation of protoplasts from vegetable tissues using extracellular lytic enzymes from fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis].	Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis, a pathogen of melon (Cucumis melo L.), was grown in shaken cultures at 26 degrees C in a mineral salts medium containing glucose, xylan and apple pectin as carbon sources. The extracellular enzymic complex obtained from these cultures showed lytic activity on plant tissues, causing maceration of melon fruits, potato tubers and carrot roots. Protoplasts were isolated from melon fruits when the maceration was carried out under appropriate osmotic conditions. This fact suggest a possible relationship between the enzymes produced by Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis and their pathogenicity on melon plants. 
22806017	20120719	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	The tropical white rot fungus, Lentinus squarrosulus Mont.: lignocellulolytic enzymes activities and sugar release from cornstalks under solid state fermentation.	Lentinus squarrosulus Mont., a high temperature tolerant white rot fungus that is found across sub-Saharan Africa and many parts of Asia, is attracting attention due to its rapid mycelia growth and potential for use in food and biodegradation. A solid state fermentation (SSF) experiment with L. squarrosulus (strain MBFBL 201) on cornstalks was conducted. The study evaluated lignocellulolytic enzymes activity, loss of organic matter (LOM), exopolysaccharide content, and the release of water soluble sugars from degraded substrate. The results showed that L. squarrosulus was able to degrade cornstalks significantly, with 58.8% LOM after 30 days of SSF. Maximum lignocellulolytic enzyme activities were obtained on day 6 of cultivation: laccase = 154.5 U/L, MnP = 13 U/L, peroxidase = 27.4 U/L, CMCase = 6.0 U/mL and xylanase = 14.5 U/mL. L. squarrosulus is a good producer of exopolysaccharides (3.0-5.13 mg/mL). Glucose and galactose were the most abundant sugars detected in the substrate during SSF, while fructose, xylose and trehalose, although detected on day zero of the experiment, were absent in treated substrates. The preference for hemicellulose over cellulose, combined with the high temperature tolerance and the very fast growth rate characteristics of L. squarrosulus could make it an ideal candidate for application in industrial pretreatment and biodelignification of lignocellulosic biomass. 
15016446	20040316	Biochimie	D016428 D013485 	Expression patterns and phylogenetic analysis of two xylanase genes (htxyl1 and htxyl2) from Helminthosporium turcicum, the cause of northern leaf blight of maize.	A xylanase gene (htxyl2) was cloned from Helminthosporium turcicum, the cause of northern leaf blight of maize by screening the genomic library from the fungus using a approximately 500 bp PCR fragment of the gene as a probe. The gene is a second xylanase gene cloned from the fungus and it is different from the previously cloned xylanase gene (htxyl1). The two genes are grouped into separate clades in a phylogenetic tree based on DNA sequences. The patterns of htxyl1 and htxyl2 transcript accumulation were studied in vitro with different carbon and nitrogen sources and during infection of maize by the pathogen. In culture high htxyl1 transcript was detected in mycelium obtained from medium containing birchwood xylan and birchwood xylan plus xylose as sole carbon sources. On the other hand htxyl2 transcript was detected in a medium containing birchwood xylan plus xylose but not in the medium where only birchwood xylan was used as the sole carbon source. Addition of glucose to the basal inducing media had inhibitory effect to the expression of both genes. The htxyl1 transcript accumulation declined sharply with an increase in concentration of ammonium sulphate and glutamic acid, while increased htxyl2 transcript was observed with an increase in concentrations of the two nitrogen sources. Abundant htxyl2 transcript was detected at early and late stages of infection of maize by Helminthosporium turcicum. On the other hand no detectable htxyl1 transcript was found in northern blot under the test conditions. This study demonstrated that in H. turcicum xylanolytic system htxyl1 and htxyl2 are differentially expressed and might play important roles in the saprophytic and pathogenic phases of the fungus, respectively. 
963703	19760701	Carbohydr._Res.	D004740 D016428 	[Complete structure of three galactoxyloglucans (amyloids) from seeds].	D-Galacto-D-xylo-D-glucans (amyloids) from Balsamina, Tropaeolum, and Tamarindus seeds behave in a similar manner in the presence of various glycosidase preparations: slow depolymerization by enzymes from several germinated or non-germinated seeds, and hydrolysis into monosaccharides and oligosaccharides by commercial cellulase and hemicellulase preparations from fungi. A purified cellulase from Penicillium notatum gave a dialyzable fraction almost exclusively composed of alpha-D-xylopyranosyl-(1 leads to 6)-D-glucose residues and a nondialyzable fraction composed of chains of beta-D-(1 leads to 4) [With some (1 leads to 3)]-glucopyranosyl residues; beta-D-galactopyranosyl-(1 leads to 2)-alpha-D-xylosyl groups are linked to some of the beta-D-glucosyl residues at O-6. The presence of (1 leads to 3)-linkages in the D-glucan chain of the Balsamina was verified by methylation and sequential periodate oxidation-borohydride reduction; the distribution of the substituents on the D-glucan chain is not regular. The main D-glucan backbone, where the  beta-D-glucosyl residues are partly linked at O-6 to beta-D-galactosyl-(1 leads to 2)-D-xylosyl groups, is linked to D-glucan chains where almost all the D-glucose units are linked at O-6 by one alpha-D-xylosyl group. The presence of 3,6-di-O-methyl-D-glucose after permethylation and hydrolysis suggests that the xyloglucan chains are linked to O-2 of the D-glucosyl units of the galactoxyloglucan backbone. 
2855978	19861001	Microbiologia	D003160 D016428 	Comparative study of two trehalases from Candida utilis.	Candida utilis ATCC 60459 contains two intracellular trehalase enzymes clearly distinguishable by molecular weight, behaviour in ion-exchange chromatography and kinetic properties. The high molecular weight trehalase (500 kDa trehalase) is specifically inhibited by acetate and accounts for less than 30% of the total trehalase activity found in cell extracts. The smaller trehalase (280 kDa trehalase) exists mostly as a cryptic enzyme whose activity can be postranslationally activated by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation. The enzyme activity of the 280 kDa trehalase is strongly inhibited by Zn2+ and markedly enhanced in the presence of Ca2+ and Mn2+. The activation by these cations, contrariwise to that induced by ATP and cAMP, does not imply a covalent modification of the 280 kDa enzyme. Several parameters have been determined for both enzymes. The 280 kDa enzyme has the properties shown by the so-called regulatory trehalases whereas the 500 kDa enzyme presents characteristics of a nonregulatory type of trehalase. 
20137960	20100209	Plant_Physiol._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 	Microscopic and biochemical evidence of differentially virulent field isolates of Diplocarpon rosae causing black spot disease of roses.	Black spot disease caused by Diplocarpon rosae is one of the most widespread diseases of roses that are very difficult to control due to the generative reproduction and complex genetic constitution of roses and up to now the control of black spot still requires intensive use of systemic fungicides. Here we report for the first time evidence of differentially virulent field isolates of D. rosae. Using a combination of fungal structures, disease symptoms and host cells protein expression pattern analysis we here provide direct biochemical evidence that tropical field isolates of D. rosae are more virulent and caused disease symptoms earlier than their temperate counterparts. The tropical fungal field isolates strongly induced an excessive accumulation of ROS and repressed activity of pathogenesis-related proteins such as peroxidases, chitinase and phenylalanine ammonia lyase compared to their temperate counterparts. These findings bring insights into a hidden pathogenic characteristic of tropical D. rosae field isolates compared to their temperate counterparts and open a novel dimension of parameters to be considered when controlling black spot disease of roses by fungicides in tropical versus temperate regions. Interestingly, we found that treatment of rose leaves with ROS (H2O2) prior to fungal inoculation promoted plant defense response regardless of the isolate virulence based on protein expression pattern analysis, suggesting that ROS (H2O2) can be efficiently incorporated into black spot disease management. 
22678130	20120609	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Process optimization of xylanase production using cheap solid substrate by Trichoderma reesei SAF3 and study on the alteration of behavioral properties of enzyme obtained from SSF and SmF.	This study aimed to assess the variability in respect of titer and properties of xylanase from Trichoderma reesei SAF3 under both solid-state and submerged fermentation. SSF was initially optimized with different agro-residues and among them wheat bran was found to be the best substrate that favored maximum xylanase production of 219 U (gws)(-1) at 96 h of incubation. The mycelial stage of the fungi and intracellular accumulation of Ca(++) and Mg(++) induced maximum enzyme synthesis. Inoculum level of 10 × 10(6) spores 5 g(-1) of dry solid substrate and water activity of 0.6 were found to be optimum for xylanase production under SSF. Further optimization was made using a Box-Behnken design under response surface methodology. The optimal cultivation conditions predicted from canonical analysis of this model were incubation time (A) = 96-99 h, inoculum concentration (B) = 10 × 10(6) spores 5 g(-1) of dry substrate, solid substrate concentration (C) = 10-12 g flask(-1), initial moisture level (D) = 10 mL flask(-1) (equivalent to a(w) = 0.55) and the level of xylanase was 299.7 U (gws)(-1). Subsequent verification of these levels agreed (97 % similar) with model predictions. Maximum amount of xylanase was recovered with water (6:1, v/w) and under shaking condition (125 rpm). Purified xylanase from SSF showed better stability in salt and pH, was catalytically and thermodynamically more efficient over enzyme from SmF, though molecular weight of both enzymes was identical (53.8 kDa). 
24360467	20131224	Food_Chem	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Recent developments in chitosanase research and its biotechnological applications: a review.	Chitosanases (EC 3.2.1.132) are glycosyl hydrolases that catalyse the endohydrolysis of β-1,4-glycosidic bonds of partially acetylated chitosan to release chitosan oligosaccharides (COS). Chitosanases are isolated, purified and characterised from different sources mainly from bacteria and fungi. Chitosanases have received much attention due to their wide range of applications including the preparation of bioactive COS and fungal protoplasts, as biocontrol agent against pathogenic fungi and insects, the bioconversion of chitinous bio waste associated with seafood processing, etc. Bioactive COS produced by the enzymatic hydrolysis of chitosan have finds numerous health benefits as well as other biological activities. This review summarizes the recent advances in chitosanases research, the enzyme production processes, characterization, genetic improvement and their applications.  
9276954	19970801	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	cDNA clones encoding 1,3-beta-glucanase and a fimbrin-like cytoskeletal protein are induced by Al toxicity in wheat roots.	A cDNA library made from mRNA of Al-treated roots of an Al-sensitive wheat (Triticum aestivum cv Victory) cultivar was screened with a degenerate oligonucleotide probe derived from the partial amino acid sequence of the Al-induced protein TAI-18. Of seven clones that initially hybridized with the probe, one encoded a novel 1,3-beta-glucanase having a calculated molecular weight of 46.3 and an isoelectric point of 6.0. Like the A6 1,3-beta-glucanase gene products from Brassica napus and Arabidopsis thaliana, the predicted wheat protein had a C-terminal extension with three potential glycosylation sites. Northern analysis revealed that wheat 1,3-beta-glucanase mRNA was up-regulated in Al-intoxicated roots, with highest expression after 12 h. The antibody to A6 1,3-beta-glucanase from B. napus cross-reacted with a 56-kD protein that was induced after 24 h. A second partial cDNA clone showed similarity to genes encoding cytoskeletal fimbrin-like (actin-bundling) proteins. Although well studied in animals and fungi, fimbrins have not previously been described in plants. Fimbrin-like transcripts were up-regulated after 24 h of Al treatment in the Al-sensitive wheat cv Victory. In the Al-tolerant cv Atlas 66, fimbrin-like mRNA was up-regulated within 12 h by Al concentrations that did not inhibit root growth. Cellular stress associated with Al toxicity therefore causes up-regulation of a defense-related gene and a gene involved in the maintenance of cytoskeletal function. 
22561863	20120508	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production, purification, and characterization of antifungal metabolite from Pseudomonas aeruginosa SD12, a new strain obtained from tannery waste polluted soil.	A new strain, SD12, was isolated from tannery waste polluted soil and identified as Pseudomonas aeruginosa on the basis of phenotypic traits and by comparison of 16S rRNA sequences. This bacterium exhibited broad-spectrum antagonistic activity against phytopathogenic fungi. The strain produced phosphatases, cellulases, proteases, pectinases, and HCN and also retained its ability to produce hydroxamate-type siderophore. A bioactive metabolite was isolated from P. aeruginosa SD12 and was characterized as 1-hydroxyphenazine ((1-OH-PHZ) by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectral analysis. The strain was used as a biocontrol agent against root rot and wilt disease of pyrethrum caused by Rhizoctonia solani. The stain is also reported to increase the growth and biomass of Plantago ovata. The purified compound, 1-hydroxyphenazine, also showed broad-spectrum antagonistic activity towards a range of phytopathogenic fungi, which is the first report of its kind. 
15989275	20050702	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Effect of blue light on conidiation development and glucoamylase enhancement in Aspergillus niger].	Pure blue (BL) or red light (RL) were obtained by filtering blue or red fluorescent lamp light through plastic filters. With the dark condition as control, the effect of BL and RL on the Aspergillus niger were studied including soluble protein content of mycelium, glucoamylase activity, the biomass as well as sporangiophore photomorphogenesis and vegetative spore development. Irradiation with BL and RL wholly promoted glucoamylase activity together with the rise of the soluble protein content and the mycelium growth. The glucoamylase activity of mycelia culture under blue light was enhanced 2.54 times than that of control. In the phases of developmental growth (young mycelia and sporangiophores), glucoamylase activity and relative conductivity ratio of mycelium were higher under blue light than under dark, the enhanced glucoamylase activity likely stemmed from development of macrosporangiophores of Aspergillus niger promoted by blue light. In addition, the increase of glucoamylase activity under blue light was highest at the stage of macrosporangiophores forming and conidiation, then declined owing to spores aging. As to young microsporangiophores under darkness the glucoamylase activity just relatively increased and declined rapidly with age. Different from control, irradiation with blue light at the time of 72 h after inoculation was able to stimulate development of macrosporangiophore and conidium along with the rise of glucoamylase activity of Aspergillus niger. 
8997712	19970101	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Thermostable xylanases produced at 37 degrees C and 45 degrees C by a thermotolerant Aspergillus strain.	Differences between xylanases produced by Aspergillus FP-470 growing under normal (37 degrees C) and temperature stress conditions (45 degrees C) were evaluated. Fungal growth at 45 degrees C was seriously affected. However, the xylanase specific activity was 2.5 times higher than that produced at 37 degrees C. Optimum pH and temperature were 6.5, 80 degrees C and 4.3, 50 degrees C for the xylanases produced at 37 degrees C and 45 degrees C, respectively. Electrophoresis showed that a more complex xylanolytic system was produced at 37 degrees C. Stress induced by temperature produced a decrease in the number of extracellular xylanases released by fungi, but increased the production of some xylanases, possibly essential for growth under stress conditions. 
20030048	20091225	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 D016454 	[Recent advances and prospect on structural biology of beta-mannanase--a review].	Beta-mannanases (beta-1,4-D-mannanase, EC 3.2.1.78), as a hemicellulose hydrolase, are widely distributed in bacteria, fungi, plants and even animals. They can randomly hydrolyze the beta-1,4-mannosidic linkages in mannan and heteromannan and have great potential in the food/feed, pulp/paper, medicine, oil exploitation and detergent industries. Most beta-mannanases often display a modular organization and usually contain structurally discrete catalytic and non-catalytic modules. Catalytic domains of these enzymes share a (beta/alpha)8-barrel fold, which play important roles in substrate binding and catalysis. Carbohydrate binding modules, as the most common non-catalytic modules, fold as beta-sandwich and facilitate the targeting of these enzymes to polysaccharide. In this review, a brief introduction is given concerning structural characteristics and function of these beta-mannanase modules. 
10956173	20000824	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Beta-glucosidase from Chalara paradoxa CH32: purification and properties.	The hyphomycete Chalara paradoxa CH32 produced an extracellular beta-glucosidase during the trophophase. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity by ion-exchange and size-exclusion chromatography. The purified enzyme had an estimated molecular mass of 170 kDa by size-exclusion chromatography and 167 kDa by SDS-PAGE. The enzyme had maximum activity at pH 4.0-5.0 and 45 degrees C. The enzyme was inactivated at 60 degrees C. At room temperature, it was unstable at acidic pH, but it was stable to alkaline pH. The purified enzyme was inhibited markedly by Hg(2+) and Ag(2+) and also to some extent by the detergents SDS, Tween 80, and Triton X-100 at 0.1%. Enzyme activity increased by 3-fold in the presence of 20% ethanol and to a lesser extent by other organic solvents. Purified beta-glucosidase was active against cellobiose and p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside but did not hydrolyze lactose, maltose, sucrose, cellulosic substrates, or galactopyranoside, mannopyranoside, or xyloside derivatives of p-nitrophenol. The V(max) of the enzyme for p-NPG (K(m) = 0.52 mM) and cellobiose (K(m) = 0.58 mM) were 294 and 288.7 units/mg, respectively. Hydrolysis of pNPG was inhibited competitively by glucose (K(i) = 11.02 mM). Release of reducing sugars from carboxymethylcellulose by a purified endoglucanase produced by the same organism increased markedly in the presence of beta-glucosidase. 
12670686	20030403	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Lignocellulose degradation by Pleurotus ostreatus in the presence of cadmium.	Activities of cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic enzymes endo-1,4-beta-glucanase, exo-1,4-beta-glucanase, 1,4-beta-glucosidase, endo-1,4-beta-xylanase, 1,4-beta-xylosidase and 1,4-beta-mannosidase and ligninolytic enzymes Mn-peroxidase and laccase were detected during the growth of the white-rot fungus Pleurotus ostreatus on wheat straw in the presence and absence of cadmium. The loss of substrate dry weight and Mn-peroxidase activity decreased with increasing Cd concentration, whereas the activities of endo-1,4-beta-glucanase, 1,4-beta-glucosidase and laccase were highly increased in the presence of metal. The onset of hemicellulose-degrading enzyme activity was delayed in the presence of cadmium. The degradation of a model synthetic dye Poly B-411 did not correspond to the activities of ligninolytic enzymes. This is the first report about 1,4-beta-mannosidase in P. ostreatus. 
17153926	20061213	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Cladosporium fulvum Avr4 protects fungal cell walls against hydrolysis by plant chitinases accumulating during infection.	Resistance against the leaf mold fungus Cladosporium fulvum is mediated by the tomato Cf proteins which belong to the class of receptor-like proteins and indirectly recognize extracellular avirulence proteins (Avrs) of the fungus. Apart from triggering disease resistance, Avrs are believed to play a role in pathogenicity or virulence of C. fulvum. Here, we report on the avirulence protein Avr4, which is a chitin-binding lectin containing an invertebrate chitin-binding domain (CBM14). This domain is found in many eukaryotes, but has not yet been described in fungal or plant genomes. We found that interaction of Avr4 with chitin is specific, because it does not interact with other cell wall polysaccharides. Avr4 binds to chitin oligomers with a minimal length of three N-acetyl glucosamine residues. In vitro, Avr4 protects chitin against hydrolysis by plant chitinases. Avr4 also binds to chitin in cell walls of the fungi Trichoderma viride and Fusarium solani f. sp. phaseoli and protects these fungi against normally deleterious concentrations of plant chitinases. In situ fluorescence studies showed that Avr4 also binds to cell walls of C. fulvum during infection of tomato, where it most likely protects the fungus against tomato chitinases, suggesting that Avr4 is a counter-defensive virulence factor. 
12753245	20030520	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 	Effect of phenolic monomers on biomass and hydrolytic enzyme activities of an anaerobic fungus isolated from wild nil gai (Baselophus tragocamelus).	To test the anaerobic fungus, Piromyces sp. FNG5, for its tolerance to phenolic monomers released in the rumen by degradation of lignocellulosic poor-quality feeds. Effects of phenolic monomers on biomass and fibrolytic enzyme activities of a pure culture of lignocellulolytic anaerobic fungus (Piromyces sp. FNG5) isolated from faeces of wild nil gai (blue bull, Baselophus tragocamelus) were evaluated. There was a reduction in fungal biomass at 1 mm concentration of catechol with complete inhibition at 10 mm. p-Coumaric acid caused a reduction in biomass at 10 mm and no growth was observed above 20 mm concentration. The fungal isolate could tolerate up to 5 mm of ferulic acid without any reduction in biomass level, and was able to grow to some extent up to the highest level of ferulic acid tested (20 mm). Vanillic acid had no effect on biomass of the fungus even up to 50 mm level. The phenolic monomers varied in their potential to inhibit the secretion of carboxymethyl cellulase, xylanase, beta-glucosidase and acetyl esterase activities with catechol being the most inhibitory and vanillic acid being the least inhibitory. After 14 days of incubation, 38.49-65.14%p-Coumaric acid, 65.22-74.10% ferulic acid and 34.13-66.78% vanillic acid disappeared from the medium under anaerobic conditions. It is concluded that the anaerobic fungus Piromyces sp. FNG5 is tolerant to phenolic monomers and has ability to degrade them. Therefore, such anaerobic fungi may play an important role in fibre degradation in the rumen. 
12487426	20021219	Crit._Rev._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Microbial beta-glucosidases: cloning, properties, and applications.	Beta-glucosidases constitute a major group among glycosylhydrolase enzymes. Out of the 82 families classified under glycosylhydrolase category, these belong to family 1 and family 3 and catalyze the selective cleavage of glucosidic bonds. This function is pivotal in many crucial biological pathways, such as degradation of structural and storage polysaccharides, cellular signaling, oncogenesis, host-pathogen interactions, as well as in a number of biotechnological applications. In recent years, interest in these enzymes has gained momentum owing to their biosynthetic abilities. The enzymes exhibit utility in syntheses of diverse oligosaccharides, glycoconjugates, alkyl- and aminoglucosides. Attempts are being made to understand the structure-function relationship of these versatile biocatalysts. Earlier reviews described the sources and properties of microbial beta-glucosidases, yeast beta-glucosidases, thermostable fungal beta-glucosidase, and the physiological functions, characteristics, and catalytic action of native beta-glucosidases from various plant, animal, and microbial sources. Recent efforts have been directed towards molecular cloning, sequencing, mutagenesis, and crystallography of the enzymes. The aim of the present article is to describe the sources and properties of recombinant beta-glucosidases, their classification schemes based on similarity at the structural and molecular levels, elucidation of structure-function relationships, directed evolution of existing enzymes toward enhanced thermostability, substrate range, biosynthetic properties, and applications. 
10788407	20000502	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Enzyme diffusion from Trichoderma atroviride (= T. harzianum P1) to Rhizoctonia solani is a prerequisite for triggering of Trichoderma ech42 gene expression before mycoparasitic contact.	A plate confrontation experiment is commonly used to study the mechanism by which Trichoderma spp. antagonize and parasitize other fungi. Previous work with chitinase gene expression (ech42) during the precontact period of this process in which cellophane and dialysis membranes separated Trichoderma harzianum and its host Rhizoctonia solani resulted in essentially opposite results. Here, we show that cellophane membranes are permeable to proteins up to at least 90 kDa in size but that dialysis membranes are not. ech42 was expressed during the precontact stage of the confrontation between Trichoderma atroviride and its host only if the cellophane was placed between the two fungi. These results are consistent with enzyme diffusion from T. atroviride to R. solani generating the trigger of ech42 gene expression. 
11854247	20020221	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Monoclonal antibody against the Plasmodium falciparum chitinase, PfCHT1, recognizes a malaria transmission-blocking epitope in Plasmodium gallinaceum ookinetes unrelated to the chitinase PgCHT1.	To initiate invasion of the mosquito midgut, Plasmodium ookinetes secrete chitinases that are necessary to cross the chitin-containing peritrophic matrix en route to invading the epithelial cell surface. To investigate chitinases as potential immunological targets of blocking malaria parasite transmission to mosquitoes, a monoclonal antibody (MAb) was identified that neutralized the enzymatic activity of the sole chitinase of Plasmodium falciparum, PfCHT1, identified to date. This MAb, designated 1C3, previously shown to react with an apical structure of P. falciparum ookinetes, also reacts with a discrete apical structure of P. gallinaceum ookinetes. In membrane feeding assays, MAb 1C3 markedly inhibited P. gallinaceum oocyst development in mosquito midguts. MAb 1C3 affinity isolated an approximately 210-kDa antigen which, under reducing conditions, became a 35-kDa antigen. This isolated 35-kDa protein cross-reacted with an antiserum raised against a synthetic peptide derived from the P. gallinaceum chitinase active site, PgCHT1, even though MAb 1C3 did not recognize native or recombinant PgCHT1 on Western blot. Therefore, this affinity-purified 35-kDa antigen appears similar to a previously identified protein, PgCHT2, a putative second chitinase of P. gallinaceum. Epitope mapping indicated MAb 1C3 recognized a region of PfCHT1 that diverges from a homologous amino acid sequence conserved within sequenced chitinases of P. berghei, P. yoelii, and P. gallinaceum (PgCHT1). A synthetic peptide derived from the mapped 1C3 epitope may be useful as a component of a subunit transmission-blocking vaccine. 
3082568	19860101	Diabetes_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Islet amyloglucosidase activity: some characteristics, and its relation to insulin secretion stimulated by various secretagogues.	The glucose-producing amylolytic activity in pancreatic islet tissue was characterized with regard to its properties with glycogen (amyloglucosidase) and maltose (maltase) as substrate, its optimum activity in islets from different strains of mice (NMRI, CBA and C-57BL) and after fasting, and its relation to the insulin secretory response after different secretagogues in vivo. Additionally the effects and fate of injected fungal acid amyloglucosidase were assessed. In the pancreatic islets of NMRI mice both the glycogen-splitting activity and the maltose-splitting activity displayed latency and an acid pH-optimum of about 5.0. After differential centrifugation a significant part of amyloglucosidase activity was found to be confined to the mitochondrial-lysosomal fraction. In crude islet homogenate the apparent Km for maltose at pH 5.0 was 2.1 mM. No Km for glycogen could be given because of complex kinetics in the presence of this substrate. The maltase activity was about 30% lower than the amyloglucosidase activity in islet tissue from NMRI mice. The reverse pattern was observed in the liver. Moreover, the liver amyloglucosidase activity was only one fourth of that of the islet tissue. The amyloglucosidase but not the maltase activity in islet tissue from CBA mice was lower than in islets from NMRI mice. Both activities were very low in islets from C-57 mice. A 24 hr fasting period reduced the amyloglucosidase but not the maltase activity in islets from NMRI mice. The insulin secretory response in vivo to an i.v. arginine load in the different strains and after fasting displayed the same pattern as the islet amyloglucosidase activity, whereas the insulin response following a glucagon injection was largest in the C-57 strain and unaffected by the fasting state. Pretreatment of mice with 0.05 mumol/kg of highly purified fungal amyloglucosidase, moderately (about 35%) enhanced the insulin secretory response to arginine, did not affect the response to glucagon, and greatly (about 100%) enhanced the response to glucose and tolbutamide. Moreover, treatment of mice with lysosomal stabilizers (glucocorticoids) reduced the insulin response to sulphonylureas and glucose, had no effect on the insulin response to beta-adrenergic and cholinergic stimulation, and increased ACTH-induced insulin release. A lysosomal labilizer (progesterone) enhanced the insulin response induced by glucose and tolbutamide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 
20387826	20100415	Anal._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Challenges of determining O-glycopeptide heterogeneity: a fungal glucanase model system.	O-Linked glycosylation often occurs in mucin-type domains that are heavily and heterogeneously glycosylated and are challenging to analyze. The analysis of these domains is often overlooked because of these difficulties, but changes in mucinlike domain glycosylation are implicated in many diseases. Here we have explored several strategies to determine the heterogeneity of mucinlike O-glycosylated domains. Four glucanases secreted in large quantities from Trichoderma reesei, all containing heavily O-glycosylated mucinlike linker regions, were used as a model system. The strategies involved monosaccharide compositional analysis and identification of the released glycans by HPAEC-PAD and carbon-LC ESI-MS/MS. Glycosylated peptides were generated by different protease digestions (trypsin, papain, Asp-N, PreTAQ) and enriched by HILIC microcolumns, to determine the glycopeptide heterogeneity and glycosylation sites. The complex O-glycan heterogeneity on the intact glycoproteins and the enriched mucin-type domains was determined by MALDI-MS and ESI-MS, but the dense O-glycosylation in the mucin-type domains conferred high resistance to protease cleavage. ETD-MS/MS of the glycopeptide-enriched protease digests was unsuccessful for the de novo assignment of O-glycosylation at individual sites within the mucin-type domains but allowed several previously unknown O-linked sites outside the defined linker region to be found on two of the four glucanases. The protease digests produced many glycopeptides as determined by CID-MS/MS, but ETD fragmentation of these resulted in only a few interpretable spectra, suggesting that the use of ETD for determining the heterogeneous O-glycosylation at specific sites in regions of multiple occupancy is still in its infancy. 
24049480	20130920	Mycobiology	D016428 	Bioconversion of straw into improved fodder: mycoprotein production and cellulolytic acivity of rice straw decomposing fungi.	Sixty two out of the sixty four species of fungal isolates tested could produce both exo-β1,4-gluconase (C1) and endo-β1,4-gluconase (Cx) on pure cellulose and rice straw as carbon source in Czapek's medium. Fifty-eight and fifteen species were able to grow at 25℃ and at 45℃, respectively. Eleven species could grow at both 25℃ and 45℃ while, four species appeared only at 45℃. The most cellulolytic species at 25℃ was Trichoderma koningii producing 1.164 C1 (mg glucose/1 ml culture filtrate/1 hr) and 2.690 Cx on pure cellulose, and 0.889 C1 and 1.810 Cx on rice straw, respectively. At 45℃, the most active thermotolerant species were Aspergillus terreus, followed by A. fumigatus. Talaromyces thermophilus was the highest active thermophilic species followed by Malbranchea sulfurea. Most of these species were also active in fermentation of rice straw at 25 and 45℃ (P<0.05). The most active ones were T. koningii, A. ochraceus and A. terreus, which produced 201.5, 193.1 and 188.1 mg crude protein/g dry straw, respectively.  
7549765	19951001	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Chitinolytic activity of the anaerobic rumen fungus Piromyces communis OTS1.	The anaerobic rumen fungus, Piromyces communis OTS1, was isolated from a fistulated goat. Its chitinolytic activity in the supernatant of media containing different types of chitin was studied. The fungus grew well in our basal medium, with and without colloidal chitin and chitin powder. N-Acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity was not detected in any of the culture media. Chitinase activity, however, was detected in the basal medium with and without colloidal chitin and chitin powder. The extracellular chitinase concentrated from the fungal culture's supernatant by ammonium sulfate (80% saturation) showed highest activity at 40 degrees C and at pH 5.5. In the other cell fractions of P. communis OTS1, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase was not detected, but chitinase activity was detected by 4-methylumbelliferyl reagents. Thus, it was found that the rumen fungus P. communis OTS1 has chitinase activity. Chitinases from the extracellular, cytosolic, and the microsomal fractions were mainly of the endo type of chitinase activity. 
399317	19790101	Microbios	D016428 	Protoplasts from Aspergillus nidulans.	A very effective lytic enzyme system for massive micro/macro-scale production of protoplasts from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans is described. A striking coincidence was observed between maximal lytic activity towards Aspergillus mycelium and the presece of both chitinase and alpha-(1 leads to 3)-glucanase activities. The release of protoplasts was greatly enhanced by preincubating the mycelium with 2-deoxy-D-glucose. Furthermore, protoplast formation was influenced by fungal age, culture conditions, pH of incubation and the osmotic stabilizer used. From 40 mg of fresh mycelium, grown for 14--16 h on 1% glucose in a low phosphate-citrate medium, preincubated with 2-deoxy-D-glucose for 45 min, and then incubated with the lytic enzyme mixture at pH 6.5 in the presence of 0.3--0.4 M (NH4) SO4, 2.5 x 10(8) stable protoplasts were produced within 3 h of incubation at 30 degrees C. Comparable results were obtained with 40--50 g of mycelium. At low osmotic stabilizer concentrations a peculiar type of regeneration was observed in the presence of the lytic enzyme system; within 12 h of incubation aberrant hyphal structure emerged from the large vacuolated protoplasts. 
6443110	19841001	J._Appl._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of cellulolytic enzymes from Trichoderma reesei QM 9414.	Two cellobiohydrolases and two endoglucanases were purified from a culture filtrate of the fungus Trichoderma reesei QM 9414 by simple and straightforward purification techniques. Molecular weights, isoelectric points, amino acid compositions, and carbohydrate contents are reported. 
10869365	20000628	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	Molecular organization of the alkali-insoluble fraction of Aspergillus fumigatus cell wall.	Physical and biological properties of the fungal cell wall are determined by the composition and arrangement of the structural polysaccharides. Cell wall polymers of fungi are classically divided into two groups depending on their solubility in hot alkali. We have analyzed the alkali-insoluble fraction of the Aspergillus fumigatus cell wall, which is the fraction believed to be responsible for fungal cell wall rigidity. Using enzymatic digestions with recombinant endo-beta-1,3-glucanase and chitinase, fractionation by gel filtration, affinity chromatography with immobilized lectins, and high performance liquid chromatography, several fractions that contained specific interpolysaccharide covalent linkages were isolated. Unique features of the A. fumigatus cell wall are (i) the absence of beta-1,6-glucan and (ii) the presence of a linear beta-1, 3/1,4-glucan, never previously described in fungi. Galactomannan, chitin, and beta-1,3-glucan were also found in the alkali-insoluble fraction. The beta-1,3-glucan is a branched polymer with 4% of beta-1,6 branch points. Chitin, galactomannan, and the linear beta-1, 3/1,4-glucan were covalently linked to the nonreducing end of beta-1, 3-glucan side chains. As in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, chitin was linked via a beta-1,4 linkage to beta-1,3-glucan. The data obtained suggested that the branching of beta-1,3-glucan is an early event in the construction of the cell wall, resulting in an increase of potential acceptor sites for chitin, galactomannan, and the linear beta-1,3/1,4-glucan. 
9812383	19981113	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase from the phytopathogenic fungus Bipolaris sorokiniana.	N-acetylhexosaminidase (HEX) from the phytopathogenic fungus Bipolaris sorokiniana was isolated and characterized. The production of HEX by B. sorokiniana was not altered by growing on different carbon sources. Enzyme purification was carried out by sequential liquid chromatography on Sephacryl S-200 HR, and p-aminobenzyl-2-acetamido-2-deoxy-beta-D-thioglucopyranoside agarose. The purification was about 70-fold, with a yield of 41%, determined with p-nitrophenyl-N-acetylglucosaminide as substrate. The enzyme had pH and temperature optima of 4.5 and 55 degrees C, respectively. The molecular weight of non-denatured enzyme was estimated as 120,000 Da by gel filtration chromatography, and about 55,000 Da by SDS-PAGE. The fungal HEX had glycosylated residues as evidenced by binding to Concanavalin-A. Bipolaris sorokiniana enzyme was also active with p-nitrophenyl-chitobioside and p-nitrophenyl-N-acetylgalactosaminide as substrates. 
11092961	20001128	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 D013485 	Enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism of mycelial fungi from marine environments. beta-1,3-glucanase of the marine fungus Chaetomium indicum.	Thirty samples of fungi belonging to 17 species living in marine environments were studied for their ability to produce extracellular enzymes. In the culture fluids, a variety of glycosidases (beta-glucosidases, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, beta-galactosidases, and alpha-mannosidases) and glucanases (amylases and beta-1,3-glucanases) were found. Several cultures were found that could be used as efficient producers of either individual enzymes or a whole complement of enzymes degrading carbohydrate-containing compounds. Optimal growth conditions for the fungus Chaetomium indicum and beta-1,3-glucanase biosynthesis were developed. beta-1,3-Glucanase was isolated by a combination of ion-exchange chromatography, ultrafiltration, and gel chromatography. The molecular mass of the enzyme determined by gel-filtration was 54 kD. The enzyme was stable at temperatures below 50 degrees C, had a temperature optimum for activity at 60 degrees C, and retained activity between pH 4.5 and 7.5. The pH dependence of the beta-1, 3-glucanase activity showed two maxima, at pH 4.4 and 5.6; this suggested the existence of two forms of the enzyme. Analysis of the products of enzymatic hydrolysis of laminaran, transglycosylating ability, and the effect of a specific natural inhibitor indicates that both forms are exo-beta-1,3-glucanases. 
16758169	20060608	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Yeasts in an industrial malting ecosystem.	The malting ecosystem consists of two components: the germinating cereal grains and the complex microbial community. Yeasts and yeast-like fungi are an important part of this ecosystem, but the composition and the effects of this microbial group have been largely unknown. In this study we surveyed the development of yeasts and yeast-like fungi in four industrial scale malting processes. A total of 136 malting process samples were collected and examined for the presence of yeasts growing at 15, 25 and 37 degrees C. More than 700 colonies were isolated and characterized. The isolates were discriminated by PCR-fingerprinting with microsatellite primer (M13). Yeasts representing different fingerprint types were identified by sequence analysis of the D1/D2 domain of the 26S rRNA gene. Furthermore, identified yeasts were screened for the production of alpha-amylase, beta-glucanase, cellulase and xylanase. A numerous and diverse yeast community consisting of both ascomycetous (25) and basidiomycetous (18) species was detected in the various stages of the malting process. The most frequently isolated ascomycetous yeasts belonged to the genera Candida, Clavispora, Galactomyces, Hanseniaspora, Issatchenkia, Pichia, Saccharomyces and Williopsis and the basidiomycetous yeasts to Bulleromyces, Filobasidium, Cryptococcus, Rhodotorula, Sporobolomyces and Trichosporon. In addition, two ascomycetous yeast-like fungi (black yeasts) belonging to the genera Aureobasidium and Exophiala were commonly detected. Yeasts and yeast-like fungi produced extracellular hydrolytic enzymes with a potentially positive contribution to the malt enzyme spectrum. Knowledge of the microbial diversity provides a basis for microflora management and understanding of the role of microbes in the cereal germination process. 
19149196	20090120	Sheng_Wu_Gong_Cheng_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Cloning and functional analysis of two regulators involved in regulation of cellulase formation in Trichoderma koningii].	ACEI and Xyr1 are two regulators that potentially involve in regulation of cellulases and xylanases formation in Trichoderma reesei, they compete for a binding site in the xyn1 (Xylanase1-encoding) gene promoter. To further investigate the mechanism for the transcriptional regulation of cellulases, DNA-binding domains of both ACEI and Xyr1 in T. Koningii were expressed from E. coli. They both showed bindings to the cbh1 promoter fragment (-304 bp to -18 bp) by electrophoresis mobility shift assays, suggesting ACEI and Xyr1 not only compete for binding to xyn1 promoter but also to cbh1 promoter. 
21165740	20101218	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	A novel antifungal Pseudomonas fluorescens isolated from potato soils in Greenland.	A rhizobacterium with high antifungal activity was isolated from a potato field at Inneruulalik, South Greenland. Phylogenetic analysis based on multi locus sequence typing showed that the bacterium was affiliated with strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens. The bacterium, denoted as Pseudomonas fluorescens In5, inhibited in vitro a broad range of phytopathogenic fungi, and the antifungal activity increased with decreasing temperature. Microcosm experiments demonstrated that P. fluorescens In5 protected tomato seedlings from Rhizoctonia solani. Transposon mutagenesis showed that the major cause for the antifungal activity of P. fluorescens In5 was a novel non-ribosomal peptide synthase (NRPS) gene. In addition, transposon mutagenesis showed that P. fluorescens In5 also contained a putative quinoprotein glucose dehydrogenase gene, which was involved in growth inhibition of phytopathogenic fungi. Although P. fluorescens In5 contained the capacity to synthesize hydrogen cyanide, β-1,3-glucanase, protease, and chitinase, these did not seem to play a role in the in vitro and microcosm antifungal assays. 
6352680	19831001	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Carbon catabolite repression of maltase synthesis in Saccharomyces carlsbergensis.	Carbon catabolite repression of maltase gene expression is brought about by the addition of glucose, resulting in a drastic inhibition of the induction of maltase. When added to induced cells, glucose leads to the inhibition of maltase synthesis within 30 min, which can be accounted for by the disappearance of hybridizable maltase RNA sequences. The loss of maltase-specific RNA due to catabolite repression can be traced to the combined effects of a 15-fold decrease in the rate of transcription of the maltase structural gene 15 to 20 min after the addition of glucose and a change in the half-life of maltase mRNA. However, the stability of maltase, once induced, is not affected by the addition of glucose. 
8286442	19930101	Biochimie	D016428 D016454 	Plant 'pathogenesis-related' proteins and their role in defense against pathogens.	The hypersensitive reaction to a pathogen is one of the most efficient defense mechanisms in nature and leads to the induction of numerous plant genes encoding defense proteins. These proteins include: 1) structural proteins that are incorporated into the extracellular matrix and participate in the confinement of the pathogen; 2) enzymes of secondary metabolism, for instance those of the biosynthesis of plant antibiotics; 3) pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins which represent major quantitative changes in soluble protein during the defense response. The PRs have typical physicochemical properties that enable them to resist to acidic pH and proteolytic cleavage and thus survive in the harsh environments where they occur: vacuolar compartment or cell wall or intercellular spaces. Since the discovery of the first PRs in tobacco many other similar proteins have been isolated from tobacco but also from other plant species, including dicots and monocots, the widest range being characterized from hypersensitively reacting tobacco. Based first on serological properties and later on sequence data, the tobacco PRs have been classified in five major groups. Group PR-1 contains the first discovered PRs of 15-17 kDa molecular mass, whose biological activity is still unknown, but some members have been shown recently to have antifungal activity. Group PR-2 contains three structurally distinct classes of 1,3-beta-glucanases, with acidic and basic counterparts, with dramatically different specific activity towards linear 1,3-beta-glucans and with different substrate specificity. Group PR-3 consists of various chitinases-lysozymes that belong to three distinct classes, are vacuolar or extracellular, and exhibit differential chitinase and lysozyme activities. Some of them, either alone or in combination with 1,3-beta-glucanases, have been shown to be antifungal in vitro and in vivo (transgenic plants), probably by hydrolysing their substrates as structural components in the fungal cell wall. Group PR-4 is the less studied, and in tobacco contains four members of 13-14.5 kDa of unknown activity and function. Group PR-5 contains acidic-neutral and very basic members with extracellular and vacuolar localization, respectively, and all members show sequence similarity to the sweet-tasting protein thaumatin. Several members of the PR-5 group from tobacco and other plant species were shown to display significant in vitro activity of inhibiting hyphal growth or spore germination of various fungi probably by a membrane permeabilizing mechanism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 
784907	19760801	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 	Changes in the cell surface of the dimorphic forms of Candida albicans by treatment with hydrolytic enzymes.	The release of acid phosphatase and polysaccharide-peptide complexes by hydrolytic enzymes from the surface of the blastospore and mycelial forms of Candida albicans has been examined in cells from 4 h and 18 h cultures and the results correlated with the appearance of the treated cells in the electron microscope. Treatment with dithiothreitol was necessary for the degradative action of the enzymes to occur. Material released by all the treatments used had a similar qualitative composition, but the proportions of mannan, glucan, peptide and acid phosphatase varied with different treatments and with the type of cell examined. I,3-beta-Glucanase was required for major changes in the cell wall to be effected, but a significant amount of material was released with a chitinase preparation containing some protease activity. Protoplasts were obtained from all types of cell using Cytophaga lytic enzyme L1 which had I,3-beta-glucanase and protease activity, but the purified I,3-beta-glucanase and protease prepared from Streptomyces violaceus cultures required the presence of a chitinase before protoplasts were released. The bonding association between the major components which comprise the cell wall, and the spatial distribution of these macromolecules, varies appreciably between the two dimorphic forms and with the age of the culture. 
23917633	20130807	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	The pH signaling transcription factor PacC is required for full virulence in Penicillium digitatum.	Penicillium digitatum is the most important postharvest pathogen of citrus fruits. Along disease progression, the infected citrus peel tissue is acidified due to the accumulation of organic acids. So far, relatively little is known about the environmental factors that regulate pathogenicity in this fungus. In this study, the role of the pH signaling transcription factor PacC in the pathogenesis of P. digitatum was investigated. We identified the pacC ortholog (PdpacC) in P. digitatum and found that its transcript levels were elevated under alkaline conditions (pH ≥ 7) in vitro, as well as during the infection of citrus fruits in spite of the low pH (about 3.0 to 3.5) of the macerated tissue. Na(+) and pectin also induced the expression of PdpacC. Disruption of PdpacC resulted in impaired mycelial growth under neutral or alkaline pH conditions and on synthetic medium supplemented with pectin as the sole carbon source, and attenuated virulence towards citrus fruits. Introducing the full length of PdpacC into the ΔPdpacC mutant restored all these phenotypes. The expression of the polygalacturonase gene Pdpg2 and pectin lyase gene Pdpnl1 in P. digitatum was upregulated in the wild type strain but not or weakly upregulated in the ΔPdpacC mutant during infection. Disruption of Pdpg2 also resulted in attenuated virulence of P. digitatum towards citrus fruits. Collectively, we conclude that PdPacC plays an important role in pathogenesis of P. digitatum via regulation of the expression of cell wall degradation enzyme genes, such as Pdpg2 and Pdpnl1. 
19521472	20090613	Plant_Signal_Behav	D016428 	A Lichen Lectin Specifically Binds to the alpha-1,4-Polygalactoside Moiety of Urease Located in the Cell Wall of Homologous Algae.	A lectin from the lichen Evernia prunastri developing arginase activity (EC. 3.5.3.1) binds to the homologous algae that contain polygalactosilated urease (EC. 3.5.1.5) in their cell walls acting as a lectin ligand. The enzyme bound to its ligand shows to be inactive to hydrolyze of arginine. Hydrolysis of the galactoside moiety of urease in intact algae with alpha-1,4-galactosidase (EC. 3.2.1.22) releases high amount of D-galactose and impedes the binding of the lectin to the algal cell wall. However, the use of beta-,4-galactosidase (EC.3.2.1.23) releases low amounts of D-galactose from the algal cell wall and does not change the pattern of binding of the lectin to its ligand. The production of glycosilated urease is restricted to the season in which algal cells divide and this assures the recognition of new phycobiont produced after cell division by its fungal partner. 
23107806	20121031	Int._J._Biol._Macromol.	D016428 D013485 	Equilibrium studies of cellulase aggregates in presence of ascorbic and boric acid.	The aggregate formation of cellulase was detected at 300 and 10 mM ascorbic and boric acid respectively. These aggregates showed reduced enzyme activity, loss in near-UV signal, decrease tryptophan and ANS fluorescence. They possess increase in non-native β-sheet structure as evident from far-UV CD and FTIR spectra, large hydrodynamic radii, increase thioflavin T fluorescence and shift in Congo red. Cellulase at 90 mM ascorbic acid exists as molten globule with retention of secondary structure, altered tryptophan environment, high ANS binding and loss in tertiary structure. Ascorbic acid acts as an antioxidant up to 90 mM and beyond this as a pro-oxidant. 
11817541	20020131	Transgenic_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Synergistic activity of endochitinase and exochitinase from Trichoderma atroviride (T. harzianum) against the pathogenic fungus (Venturia inaequalis) in transgenic apple plants.	Genes from the biocontrol fungus Trichoderma atroviride encoding the antifungal proteins endochitinase or exochitinase (N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase) were inserted into 'Marshall McIntosh' apple singly and in combination. The genes were driven by a modified CaMV35S promoter. The resulting plants were screened for resistance to Venturia inaequalis, the causal agent of apple scab, and for effects of enzyme expression on growth. Disease resistance was correlated with the level of expression of either enzyme when expressed alone but exochitinase was less effective than endochitinase. The level of expression of endochitinase was negatively correlated with plant growth while exochitinase had no consistent effect on this character. Plants expressing both enzymes simultaneously were more resistant than plants expressing either single enzyme at the same level; analyses indicated that the two enzymes acted synergistically to reduce disease. Selected lines, especially one expressing low levels of endochitinase activity and moderate levels of exochitinase activity, were highly resistant in growth chamber trials and had negligible reduction in vigor relative to control plants. We believe that this is the first report of resistance in plants induced by expression of an N-acetylhexosaminidase and is the first report of in planta synergy between an exochitinase and an endochitinase. 
19486415	20090603	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Asexual sporulation signalling regulates autolysis of Aspergillus nidulans via modulating the chitinase ChiB production.	Elucidation of the regulation of ChiB production in Aspergillus nidulans. Mutational inactivation of the A. nidulans chiB gene resulted in a nonautolytic phenotype. To better understand the mechanisms controlling both developmental progression and fungal autolysis, we examined a range of autolysis-associated parameters in A. nidulans developmental and/or autolytic mutants. Investigation of disorganization of mycelial pellets, loss of biomass, extra-/intracellular chitinase activities, ChiB production and chiB mRNA levels in various cultures revealed that, in submerged cultures, initialization of autolysis and stationary phase-induced ChiB production are intimately coupled, and that both processes are controlled by the FluG-BrlA asexual sporulation regulatory pathway. ChiB production does not affect the progression of apoptotic cell death in the aging A. nidulans cultures. The endochitinase ChiB plays an important role in autolysis of A. nidulans, and its production is initiated by FluG-BrlA signalling. Despite the fact that apoptosis is an inseparable part of fungal autolysis, its regulation is independent to FluG-initiated sporulation signalling. Deletion of chiB and fluG homologues in industrial filamentous fungal strains may stabilize the hyphal structures in the autolytic phase of growth and limit the release of autolytic hydrolases into the culture medium. 
14631873	20031125	Biol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	The development of Alternaria alternata is prevented by chitinases and beta-1,3-glucanases from Citrus limon seedlings.	In addition to phytoalexin synthesis, the defense response of intact Citrus limon seedlings against Alternaria alternata involves both constitutive and induced enzyme activities such as chitinases (Ch) and beta-1,3-glucanases (Glu). A alternata conidial germination was prevented by protein extracts from inoculated lemon seedlings, but also by extracts from mock-inoculated specimens. On the other hand, degradation of mycelia was accomplished only by protein extracts from inoculated seedlings. The presence of six Ch isoenzymes and of four Glu isoenzymes was detected in protein extracts from mock-inoculated seedlings. As a result of fungal inoculation, the isoenzyme pattern of Ch and Glu changed, making possible the detection of a new Ch isoenzyme and of three new Glu. Also, some constitutive Ch and Glu increased their enzyme activity, and those Ch that increased their activity also showed a broadening of their substrate specificity. These changes were prevented by alpha-amanitin and cycloheximide, suggesting that the presence of new Ch and Glu isoenzymes was due to de novo synthesis of proteins. Results suggest that constitutive Ch and Glu could act as pre-formed defense molecules in Citrus limon preventing A. alternata germination, while those induced after fungal inoculation of lemon seedlings could act along with the former, to produce lysis of fungal mycelia, resulting in a more efficient control of A. alternata development. 
21382036	20110309	Physiol_Plant	D016428 D013485 	Characterisation, immunolocalisation and antifungal activity of a lipid transfer protein from chili pepper (Capsicum annuum) seeds with novel α-amylase inhibitory properties.	Lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) were thus named because they facilitate the transfer of lipids between membranes in vitro. This study was triggered by the characterization of a 9-kDa LTP from Capsicum annuum seeds that we call Ca-LTP(1) . Ca-LTP(1) was repurified, and in the last chromatographic purification step, propanol was used as the solvent in place of acetonitrile to maintain the protein's biological activity. Bidimensional electrophoresis of the 9-kDa band, which corresponds to the purified Ca-LTP(1) , showed the presence of three isoforms with isoelectric points (pIs) of 6.0, 8.5 and 9.5. Circular dichroism (CD) analysis suggested a predominance of α-helices, as expected for the structure of an LTP family member. LTPs immunorelated to Ca-LTP(1) from C. annuum were also detected by western blotting in exudates released from C. annuum seeds and also in other Capsicum species. The tissue and subcellular localization of Ca-LTP(1) indicated that it was mainly localized within dense vesicles. In addition, isolated Ca-LTP(1) exhibited antifungal activity against Colletotrichum lindemunthianum, and especially against Candida tropicalis, causing several morphological changes to the cells including the formation of pseudohyphae. Ca-LTP(1) also caused the yeast plasma membrane to be permeable to the dye SYTOX green, as verified by fluorescence microscopy. We also found that Ca-LTP(1) is able to inhibit mammalian α-amylase activity in vitro. 
1326415	19920401	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Multiple-copy integration of the alpha-galactosidase gene from Cyamopsis tetragonoloba into the ribosomal DNA of Kluyveromyces lactis.	We have developed a vector system for high-copy-number integration into the ribosomal DNA of the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis. This system is analogous to the pMIRY-system developed for Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Plasmids containing a portion of K. lactis rDNA for targeted homologous recombination, as well as the S. cerevisiae TRP1 gene with various promoter deletions, were constructed and, after transformation to K. lactis, analyzed for both copy number and stability. These plasmids were found to be present in about 60 copies per cell and were stably maintained during growth under non-selective conditions. Using this vector system, we expressed a fusion construct containing the S. cerevisiae GAL7 promoter, the SUC2 (invertase) signal sequence and the gene coding for alpha-galactosidase from the plant Cyamopsis tetragonoloba. Although the maximum copy number of these integrated plasmids was only about 15, we nevertheless obtained a high level of alpha-galactosidase production (250 mg/l) with a secretion efficiency of about 95%. When compared to extrachromosomal K. lactis vectors containing the same fusion construct, the multicopy integrants showed a much higher alpha-galactosidase production level and a considerably higher stability under non-selective conditions. 
22868752	20120808	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Structure of the catalytic core module of the Chaetomium thermophilum family GH6 cellobiohydrolase Cel6A.	Cellulases, including cellobiohydrolases and endoglucanases, are important enzymes involved in the breakdown of the polysaccharide cellulose. These catalysts have found widescale industrial applications, particularly in the paper and textile industries, and are now finding use in `second-generation' conversion of biomass to biofuels. Despite this considerable biotechnological application, and undoubted future potential, uncertainty remains as to the exact reaction mechanism of the inverting cellulases found in the GH6 family of carbohydrate-active enzymes. In order to gain additional understanding as to how these societally beneficial biocatalysts function, the crystal structure of a GH6 cellobiohydrolase from Chaetomium thermophilum, CtCel6A, has been solved. This structure reveals a distorted α/β-barrel fold comprising a buried tunnel-like active site quite typical of Cel6A enzymes. Analysis of an enzyme-product complex (cellobiose in the -3 and -2 subsites and cellotetraose in subsites +1 to +4) supports the hypothesis that this group of enzymes act via an atypical single-displacement mechanism. Of particular note in this analysis is an active-centre metal ion, Li(+), the position of which matches the position of the positively charged anomeric carbon of the oxocarbenium-ion-like transition state. 
21739353	20110709	Mol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Intercellular production of tamavidin 1, a biotin-binding protein from Tamogitake mushroom, confers resistance to the blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae in transgenic rice.	The blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, one of the most devastating rice pathogens in the world, shows biotin-dependent growth. We have developed a strategy for creating disease resistance to M. oryzae whereby intercellular production of tamavidin 1, a biotin-binding protein from Pleurotus cornucopiae occurs in transgenic rice plants. The gene that encodes tamavidin 1, fused to the sequence for a secretion signal peptide derived from rice chitinase gene, was connected to the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, and the resultant construct was introduced into rice. The tamavidin 1 was accumulated at levels of 0.1-0.2% of total soluble leaf proteins in the transgenic rice and it was localized in the intercellular space of rice leaves. The tamavidin 1 purified from the transgenic rice was active, it bound to biotin and inhibited in vitro growth of M. oryzae by causing biotin deficiency. The transgenic rice plants showed a significant resistance to M. oryzae. This study shows the possibility of a new strategy to engineer disease resistance in higher plants by taking advantage of a pathogen's auxotrophy. 
17343985	20070309	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Protein glycosylation in pmt mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Influence of heterologously expressed cellobiohydrolase II of Trichoderma reesei and elevated levels of GDP-mannose and cis-prenyltransferase activity.	Protein O-mannosylation has been postulated to be critical for production and secretion of glycoproteins in fungi. Therefore, understanding the regulation of this process and the influence of heterologous expression of glycoproteins on the activity of enzymes engaged in O-glycosylation are of considerable interest. In this study we expressed cellobiohydrolase II (CBHII) of T. reesei, which is normally highly O-mannosylated, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae pmt mutants partially blocked in O-mannosylation. We found that the lack of Pmt1 or Pmt2 protein O-mannosyltransferase activity limited the glycosylation of CBHII, but it did not affect its secretion. The S. cerevisiae pmt1Delta and pmt2Delta mutants expressing T. reesei cbh2 gene showed a decrease of GDP-mannose level and a very high activity of cis-prenyltransferase compared to untransformed strains. On the other hand, elevation of cis-prenyltransferase activity by overexpression of the S. cerevisiae RER2 gene in these mutants led to an increase of dolichyl phosphate mannose synthase activity, but it did not influence the activity of O-mannosyltransferases. Overexpression of the MPG1 gene increased the level of GDP-mannose and stimulated the activity of mannosyltransferases elongating O-linked sugar chains, leading to partial restoration of CBHII glycosylation. 
7659526	19950811	Nucleic_Acids_Res.	D016428 	AT-rich upstream sequence elements regulate spore germination-specific expression of the Dictyostelium discoideum celA gene.	Two members of a family of spore germination-specific cDNAs, celA and celB, are expressed coordinately, exclusively during spore germination. In the present study the regulatory sequence elements responsible for celA germination-specific expression have been identified. The very AT-rich 81 bp sequence between -664 and -584 upstream of the translation initiation site was required for proper temporal transcription of the celA gene. This sequence is comprised of two cis elements, each of which was active by itself in allowing celA expression. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that a factor(s) in an extract prepared from germinating spores bound to the celA regulatory region. One of the three complexes formed was specific for the germinating spore extract. The results are consistent with the notion that the factor(s) that binds to this regulatory region is involved in expression of celA. 
10725180	20000322	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression in Aspergillus nidulans of a Trichoderma longibrachiatum endoglucanase of enological relevance.	An Aspergillus nidulans transformant expressing the Trichoderma longibrachiatum endoglucanase 1 gene (egl1) has been constructed. The extracellular production of EGL1 in different culture media has been studied, and a medium has been found in which EGL1 is the predominant extracellular protein produced. The enzymatic properties of the heterologously produced EGL1 are very similar to those of the native enzyme. Grape maceration in the presence of culture filtrate enriched in EGL1 resulted in increased release of aroma precursors, particularly in the case of aromatic grapes. Cryoscanning electron microscopy of the flesh of grapes treated with EGL1-enriched culture filtrate revealed degradation of the cell wall matrix. 
8590658	19951101	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Development of yeast strains for the efficient utilisation of starch: evaluation of constructs that express alpha-amylase and glucoamylase separately or as bifunctional fusion proteins.	Eight constructions involving the Bacillus subtilis alpha-amylase gene (amyE), a mouse pancreatic alpha-amylase cDNA (AMY2) and an Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase cDNA (glaA) were prepared: three fusion genes, involving one alpha-amylase and the glucoamylase, two double-cassette plasmids (expressing one or other alpha-amylase and the glucoamylase) and three single-cassette plasmids, expressing the individual coding sequences. Following transformation of each plasmid into Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a plate test revealed that the largest starch hydrolysis halo was produced by the strain bearing the B. subtilis alpha-amylase/glucoamylase fusion (BsAAase/GAase), and the smallest halo by the one expressing the mouse pancreatic alpha-amylase/glucoamylase fusion (MAAase/GAase). When assayed for enzymatic activity in liquid medium, the strains bearing the fusion and the double-cassette plasmids involving B. subtilis alpha-amylase and the glucoamylase exhibited both enzymic activities. Moreover, the BsAAase/GAase hybrid was able to adsorb and digest raw starch. The MAAse/GAase fusion protein was found to exhibit only alpha-amylase activity. Finally, the capacity to grow on soluble and corn starch was tested in liquid medium for the strains bearing plasmids coding for the fusion proteins and the separate enzymes. The strain carrying the double-cassette BsAAase + GAase, which produced one of the smallest hydrolysis haloes in the place test, showed the best performance, not only in digesting soluble and corn starch but also in using all of the hydrolysis products for growth. The transformant bearing the BsAAase/GAase fusion was able to grow on soluble starch, but not on corn starch. 
14469205	19620201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Sophorose as an inducer of cellulase in Trichoderma viride.	Mandels, Mary (Quartermaster Research and Engineering Center, Natick, Mass.), Fredrick W. Parrish, and Elwyn T. Reese. Sophorose as an inducer of cellulase in Trichoderma viride. J. Bacteriol. 83:400-408. 1962.-The impurity in glucose responsible for cellulase induction in Trichoderma viride QM 6a has been isolated and characterized as sophorose (2-O-beta-d-glucopyranosyl-d-glucose). It is present at 0.0058% in reagent grade glucose. Sophorose is a very powerful inducer of cellulase for Trichoderma viride, being 2500 times as active as cellobiose. Modifications of sophorose, such as reduction or glycoside formation, destroy its inducing ability. The high activity of sophorose as an inducer is specific for T. viride. 
16960377	20060909	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 	Exploring amino acids responsible for the temperature profile of glycoside hydrolase family 45 endoglucanase EGL3 from Humicola grisea.	EGL3 and RCE1 are glycoside hydrolase family 45 endoglucanases isolated from Humicola grisea and Rhizopus oryzae respectively. The amino acid sequences of the two endoglucanases are homologous; on the other hand, the optimum temperature of EGL3 is higher than that of RCE1. In this study, four chimeric endoglucanases, named ER1, ER2, ER3 and ER4, in which one of four sequential amino acid regions of the EGL3 catalytic domain (CAD) was replaced by the corresponding RCE1 amino acids, were constructed to explore the region responsible for the EGL3 temperature profile. Then their temperature profiles were compared with that of the recombinant EGL3. Replacement of the N-terminal region of EGL3 with that of RCE1 caused the EGL3 temperature profile to shift to a lower temperature. These results suggest that the N-terminal amino acids of the EGL3 are responsible for the EGL3 temperature profile. 
9023939	19970201	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparison of cell wall proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae as anchors for cell surface expression of heterologous proteins.	The carboxyl-terminal regions of five cell wall proteins (Cwp1p, Cwp2p, Ag alpha 1p, Tip1p, and Flo1p) and three potential cell wall proteins (Sed1p, YCR89w, and Tir1p) all proved capable of immobilizing alpha-galactosidase in the cell wall of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The fraction of the total amount of fusion protein that was localized to the cell wall varied depending on the anchor domain used. The highest proportion of cell wall incorporation was achieved with Cwp2p, Ag alpha 1p, or Sed1p as an anchor. Although 80% of these fusion proteins were incorporated in the cell wall, the total production of alpha-galactosidase-Ag alpha 1p was sixfold lower than that of alpha-galactosidase-Cwp2p and eightfold lower than that of alpha-galactosidase-Sed1p. Differences in mRNA levels were not responsible for this discrepancy, nor was an intracellular accumulation of alpha-galactosidase-Ag alpha 1p detectable. A lower translation efficiency of the alpha-galactosidase-AG alpha 1 fusion construct is most likely to be responsible for the low level of protein production. alpha-Galactosidase immobilized by the carboxyl-terminal 67 amino acids of Cwp2p was most effective in the hydrolysis of the high-molecular-weight substrate guar gum from Cyamopsis tetragonoloba. This indicates that the use of a large anchoring domain does not necessarily result in a better exposure of the immobilized enzyme to the exterior of the yeast cell. 
15054266	20040401	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Screening genus Penicillium for producers of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes.	For enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocellulosic material, cellulolytic enzymes from Trichoderma reesei are most commenly used, but, there is a need for more efficient enzyme cocktails. In this study, the production of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes was investigated in 12 filamentous fungi from genus Penicillium and compared with that of T. reesei. Either Solka-Floc cellulose or oat spelt xylan was used as carbon source in shake flask cultivations. All the fungi investigated showed coinduction of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes during growth on cellulose as well as on xylan. The highest filter paper activity was measured after cultivation of Penicillium brasilianum IBT 20888 on cellulose. 
22960281	20120911	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	The regulatory factor PcRFX1 controls the expression of the three genes of β-lactam biosynthesis in Penicillium chrysogenum.	Penicillin biosynthesis is subjected to a complex regulatory network of signalling molecules that may serve as model for other secondary metabolites. The information provided by the new "omics" era about Penicillium chrysogenum and the advances in the knowledge of molecular mechanisms responsible for improved productivity, make this fungus an excellent model to decipher the mechanisms controlling the penicillin biosynthetic pathway. In this work, we have characterized a novel transcription factor PcRFX1, which is an ortholog of the Acremonium chrysogenum CPCR1 and Penicillium marneffei RfxA regulatory proteins. PcRFX1 DNA binding sequences were found in the promoter region of the pcbAB, pcbC and penDE genes. We show in this article that these motifs control the expression of the β-galactosidase lacZ reporter gene, indicating that they may direct the PcRFX1-mediated regulation of the penicillin biosynthetic genes. By means of Pcrfx1 gene knock-down and overexpression techniques we confirmed that PcRFX1 controls penicillin biosynthesis through the regulation of the pcbAB, pcbC and penDE transcription. Morphology and development seemed not to be controlled by this transcription factor under the conditions studied and only sporulation was slightly reduced after the silencing of the Pcrfx1 gene. A genome-wide analysis of processes putatively regulated by this transcription factor was carried out in P. chrysogenum. Results suggested that PcRFX1, in addition to regulate penicillin biosynthesis, is also involved in the control of several pathways of primary metabolism. 
20829451	20100911	Science	D016428 D013485 	Cellodextrin transport in yeast for improved biofuel production.	Fungal degradation of plant biomass may provide insights for improving cellulosic biofuel production. We show that the model cellulolytic fungus Neurospora crassa relies on a high-affinity cellodextrin transport system for rapid growth on cellulose. Reconstitution of the N. crassa cellodextrin transport system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae promotes efficient growth of this yeast on cellodextrins. In simultaneous saccharification and fermentation experiments, the engineered yeast strains more rapidly convert cellulose to ethanol when compared with yeast lacking this system. 
10779873	20000426	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Introduction of the Serratia marcescens chiA gene into an endophytic Pseudomonas fluorescens for the biocontrol of phytopathogenic fungi.	An endophytic strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens was isolated from micropropagated apple plantlets and introduced into beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) via their root tips. It was shown to be present as an endophyte in the roots at a level of 1.2 x 10(5) CFU/g fresh weight. The gene coding for the major chitinase of Serratia marcescens, chiA, was cloned under the control of the tac promoter into the broad-host-range plasmid pKT240 and the integration vector pJFF350. Pseudomonas fluorescens carrying tacchiA either on the plasmid or integrated into the chromosome is an effective biocontrol agent of the phytopathogenic fungus Rhizoctonia solani on bean seedlings under plant growth chamber conditions. 
22609669	20120522	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013486 	Lignocellulose modifications by brown rot fungi and their effects, as pretreatments, on cellulolysis.	Brown rot fungi Gloeophyllum trabeum and Postia placenta were used to degrade aspen, spruce, or corn stover over 16 weeks. Decayed residues were saccharified using commercial cellulases or brown rot fungal extracts, loaded at equal but low endoglucanase titers. Saccharification was then repeated for high-yield samples using full strength commercial cellulases. Overall, brown rot pretreatments enhanced yields up to threefold when using either cellulase preparation. In the best case, aspen degraded 2 weeks by G. trabeum yielded 72% glucose-from-cellulose, a 51% yield relative to original glucan. A follow-up trial with more frequent harvests showed similar patterns and demonstrated interplay between tissue modifications and saccharification. Hemicellulose and vanillic acid (G6) or vanillin (G4) lignin residues were good predictors of saccharification potential, the latter notable given lignin's potential active role in brown rot. Results show basic relationships over a brown rot time course and lend targets for controlling an applied bioconversion process. 
20014432	20091217	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 D013485 	Functionalization of cellulose acetate fibers with engineered cutinases.	In the present work, we describe for the first time the specific role of cutinase on surface modification of cellulose acetate fibers. Cutinase exhibits acetyl esterase activity on diacetate and triacetate of 0.010 U and 0.007 U, respectively. An increase on the hydroxyl groups at the fiber surface of 25% for diacetate and 317% for triacetate, after a 24 h treatment, is estimated by an indirect assay. Aiming at further improvement of cutinase affinity toward cellulose acetate, chimeric cutinases are genetically engineered by fusing the 3'-end coding sequence with a bacterial or a fungal carbohydrate-binding module and varying the linker DNA sequence. A comparative analysis of these genetic constructions is presented showing that, the superficial regeneration of cellulose hydrophilicity and reactivity on highly substituted cellulose acetates is achieved by chimeric cutinases. 
21232645	20110115	N_Biotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Cellulase production in a new mutant strain of Penicillium decumbens ML-017 by solid state fermentation with rice bran.	To produce cellulolytic enzyme efficiently, Penicillium decumbens strain L-06 was used to prepare mutants with ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) and UV-irradiation. A mutant strain ML-017 is shown to have a higher cellulase activity than others. Box-Behnken's design (BBD) and response surface methodology (RSM) were adopted to optimize the conditions of cellulase (filter paper activity, FPA) production in strain ML-017 by solid-state fermentation (SSF) with rice bran as the substrate. And the result shows that the initial pH, moisture content and culture temperature all have significant effect on the production of cellulase. The optimized condition shall be initial pH 5.7, moisture content 72% and culture temperature 30°C. The maximum cellulase (FPA) production was obtained under the optimized condition, which is 5.76 IU g(-1), increased by 44.12% to its original strain. It corresponded well with the calculated results (5.15 IU g(-1)) by model prediction. The result shows that both BBD and RSM are the cellulase optimization methods with good prospects. 
8075794	19940701	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Structural organization of the components of the cell wall from Candida albicans.	The organization of the components of the cell wall from Candida albicans was studied by means of sequential treatment with hot SDS, anhydrous ethylenediamine (EDA) and lytic enzymes, followed by chemical and microscopic analyses of the different separated fractions. The EDA-insoluble fraction retained the original morphology of the wall, which was destroyed by beta-glucanase, but not by chitinase treatments. Staining with fluorescent lectins revealed distinct distributions of mannoproteins, glucans and chitin in the wall. Amino acid analysis of SDS-extracted walls, and the EDA-soluble and -resistant fractions gave similar results, with seven amino acids making up about 70% of the total protein weight. Treatment of the EDA-insoluble fraction with Zymolyase or chitinase released fragments of variable size whose susceptibility to these and other hydrolases suggests that they are made of glucan, chitin and mannan oligomers associated with proteins. Treatment of the Zymolyase-insoluble residue with chitinase released a series of low-molecular-mass oligomers made of neutral sugars, GlcNAc and amino acids, mainly lysine. It is suggested that they represent fragments of the core making up the scaffold of the cell wall of the fungus. 
17364687	20070317	Crit._Rev._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Bacterial chitinases: properties and potential.	Chitin is among the most abundant biomass present on Earth. Chitinase plays an important role in the decomposition of chitin and potentially in the utilization of chitin as a renewable resource. During the previous decade, chitinases have received increased attention because of their wide range of applications. Chito-oligomers produced by enzymatic hydrolysis of chitin have been of interest in recent years due to their broad applications in medical, agricultural, and industrial applications, including antibacterial, antifungal, hypocholesterolemic, and antihypertensive activity, and as a food quality enhancer. Microorganisms, particularly bacteria, form one of the major sources of chitinase. In this article, we have reviewed some of the chitinases produced by bacterial systems that have gained worldwide research interest for their diverse properties and potential industrial uses. 
22203550	20111229	J._Microbiol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	The use of Pseudomonas fluorescens P13 to control sclerotinia stem rot (Sclerotinia sclerotiorum) of oilseed rape.	Sclerotinia stem rot (SSR) caused by the fungus Sclerotinia sclerotiorum has been an increasing threat to oilseed rape (Brassica napus L.) cultivation. Efficient and environment-friendly treatments are much needed. Here we focus on microbial control. The Pseudomonas fluorescens P13 that was isolated from oilseed rape cultivation soil, proved to be a useful biocontrol strain for application. Morphology, physiological and biochemical tests and 16S rDNA analysis demonstrated that it was P. fluorescens P13 and that it had a broad antagonistic spectrum, significantly lessening the mycelial growth of S. sclerotiorum by 84.4% and suppressing sclerotial formation by 95-100%. Scanning electron microscopy studies attested that P13 deformed S. sclerotiorum mycelia when they were cultured together. P13 did not produce chitinase but did produce hydrogen cyanide (HCN) which was likely one of the antagonistic mechanisms. The density of P13 remained at a high level (≥10(6) CFU/ml) during 5 weeks in the rhizosphere soil and roots. P13 reduced SSR severity at least by 59% in field studies and also promoted seedling growth (p<0.05) at the seedling stage. From these data, our work provided evidence that P13 could be a good alternative biological resource for biocontrol of S. sclerotiorum. 
16535755	20060315	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Expression and Secretion of Barley Cysteine Endopeptidase B and Cellobiohydrolase I in Trichoderma reesei.	Localization of expression and secretion of a heterologous barley cysteine endopeptidase (EPB) and the homologous main cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI) in a Trichoderma reesei transformant expressing both proteins were studied. The transformant was grown on solid medium with Avicel cellulose and lactose to induce the cbh1 promoter for the synthesis of the native CBHI and the recombinant barley protein linked to a cbh1 expression cassette. Differences in localization of expression between the two proteins were clearly indicated by in situ hybridization, indirect immunofluorescence, and immunoelectron microscopy. In young hyphae, native-size recombinant epb mRNA was localized to apical compartments. In older cultures, it was also seen in subapical compartments but not in hyphae from the colony center. The recombinant EPB had a higher molecular weight than the native barley protein, probably due to glycosylation and differential processing in the fungal host. As was found with its transcripts, recombinant EPB was localized in apical and subapical compartments of hyphae. The cbh1 mRNA and CBHI were both localized to all hyphae of a colony, which suggests that the endogenous CBHI was also secreted from these. In immunoelectron microscopy, the endoplasmic reticulum and spherical vesicles assumed to contribute to secretion were labeled by both CBHI and EPB antibodies while only CBHI was localized in elongated vesicles close to the plasma membrane and in hyphal walls. The results indicate that in addition to young apical cells, more mature hyphae in a colony may secrete proteins. 
15238703	20040709	Glycoconj._J.	D016428 D013485 	Monitoring of the tissue distribution of fibroblast growth factor containing a high mannose-type sugar chain produced in mutant yeast.	Most therapeutic glycoproteins have been produced in mammalian cell lines. However, the mammalian cell culture system has various disadvantages, i.e., a high culture cost, difficulty in performing a large scale-up because of complicated handling requirements, and the risk of contamination by prion or other unknown pathogenic components through cultivation in the presence of bovine serum. There is thus a growing need for other host cells in which the recombinant glycoproteins can be produced. Recently, we successfully developed a mutant yeast strain engineered in a glycosylation system. The sugar chain produced in the mutant yeast is not immunogenic to the human immuno-surveillance system. In the present study, we selected fibroblast growth factor (FGF) as a model glycoprotein and assessed the bioactivity of FGF produced in yeast in terms of its proliferating activity and tissue distribution in mammalian cells and in the whole body. Structural changes in the sugar chains of FGFs derived from mutant yeast, as compared with those from mammalian cells, did not affect the proliferating activity remarkably. However, the tissue distribution in the mouse differed significantly; a high-mannose type sugar chain was the major determinant of the specific distribution of FGF to the kidney. The mechanism of this phenomenon is still unclear, but our observations suggest that recombinant glycoproteins derived from mutant yeasts producing high-mannose type sugar chains would be applicable for tissue-targeting therapy. 
10022947	19990218	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and characterization of pl1 encoding an in planta-secreted pectate lyase of Fusarium oxysporum.	A pectate lyase (PL1) from the tomato vascular wilt pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici was previously characterized, and evidence was obtained for its production in planta. The gene encoding PL1 was isolated from a genomic library of F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici. Pl1 encodes a 240 amino-acid polypeptide with one putative N-glycosylation site and a 15 amino-acid N-terminal signal peptide. PL1 showed 89%, 67%, 55% and 56% identity with the products of the Fusarium solani f.sp. pisi pelA, pelB, pelC and pelD genes, respectively. A single copy of the gene was detected in different formae speciales of F. oxysporum. The pl1 transcript was observed during growth on polygalacturonic acid sodium salt and tomato vascular tissue, but not on pectin or glucose. RT-PCR showed pl1 expression in roots and stems of tomato plants infected by F. oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici. 
19166577	20090127	BMC_Genomics	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Transcriptomic comparison of Aspergillus niger growing on two different sugars reveals coordinated regulation of the secretory pathway.	The filamentous fungus, Aspergillus niger, responds to nutrient availability by modulating secretion of various substrate degrading hydrolases. This ability has made it an important organism in industrial production of secreted glycoproteins. The recent publication of the A. niger genome sequence and availability of microarrays allow high resolution studies of transcriptional regulation of basal cellular processes, like those of glycoprotein synthesis and secretion. It is known that the activities of certain secretory pathway enzymes involved N-glycosylation are elevated in response to carbon source induced secretion of the glycoprotein glucoamylase. We have investigated whether carbon source dependent enhancement of protein secretion can lead to upregulation of secretory pathway elements extending beyond those involved in N-glycosylation. This study compares the physiology and transcriptome of A. niger growing at the same specific growth rate (0.16 h(-1)) on xylose or maltose in carbon-limited chemostat cultures. Transcription profiles were obtained using Affymetrix GeneChip analysis of six replicate cultures for each of the two growth-limiting carbon sources. The production rate of extracellular proteins per gram dry mycelium was about three times higher on maltose compared to xylose. The defined culture conditions resulted in high reproducibility, discriminating even low-fold differences in transcription, which is characteristic of genes encoding basal cellular functions. This included elements in the secretory pathway and central metabolic pathways. Increased protein secretion on maltose was accompanied by induced transcription of > 90 genes related to protein secretion. The upregulated genes encode key elements in protein translocation to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), folding, N-glycosylation, quality control, and vesicle packaging and transport between ER and Golgi. The induction effect of maltose resembles the unfolded protein response (UPR), which results from ER-stress and has previously been defined by treatment with chemicals interfering with folding of glycoproteins or by expression of heterologous proteins. We show that upregulation of secretory pathway genes also occurs in conditions inducing secretion of endogenous glycoproteins - representing a more normal physiological state. Transcriptional regulation of protein synthesis and secretory pathway genes may thus reflect a general mechanism for modulation of secretion capacity in response to the conditional need for extracellular enzymes. 
10427696	19990731	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of the actin gene from the cellulolytic fungus Humicola grisea and analysis of transcription levels of actin and cellulase genes.	An actin gene was isolated from the cellulolytic fungus Humicola grisea. The gene structure, which has 5 introns in the coding region, is similar to those of the so far cloned fungal actin genes. But there are some differences in intron sizes and codon usage. Transcription levels of actin and cellulase genes were also investigated. 
8702902	19960830	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	Characterization of a double cellulose-binding domain. Synergistic high affinity binding to crystalline cellulose.	Most cellulose-degrading enzymes have a two-domain structure that consists of a catalytic and a cellulose-binding domain (CBD) connected by a linker region. The linkage and the interactions of the two domains represent one of the key questions for the understanding of the function of these enzymes. The CBDs of fungal cellulases are small peptides folding into a rigid, disulfide-stabilized structure that has a distinct cellulose binding face. Here we describe properties of a recombinant double CBD, constructed by fusing the CBDs of two Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolases via a linker peptide similar to the natural cellulase linkers. After expression in Escherichia coli, the protein was purified from the culture medium by reversed phase chromatography and the individual domains obtained by trypsin digestion. Binding of the double CBD and its single CBD components was investigated on different types of cellulose substrates as well as chitin. Under saturating conditions, nearly 20 micromol/g of the double CBD was bound onto microcrystalline cellulose. The double CBD exhibited much higher affinity on cellulose than either of the single CBDs, indicating an interplay between the two components. A two-step model is proposed to explain the binding behavior of the double CBD. A similar interplay between the domains in the native enzyme is suggested for its binding to cellulase. 
17768346	20070905	Acta_Crystallogr._Sect._F_Struct._Biol._Cryst._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Preliminary X-ray analysis of cellobiohydrolase Cel7B from Melanocarpus albomyces.	Cellobiohydrolases are enzymes that cleave off cellobiose units from cellulose chains in a processive manner. Melanocarpus albomyces Cel7B is a thermostable single-module cellobiohydrolase that has relatively low activity on small soluble substrates at room temperature. It belongs to glycoside hydrolase family 7, which includes endo-beta-1,4-glucanases and cellobiohydrolases. Cel7B was crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method and streak-seeding. The crystals belonged to space group P2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 50.9, b = 94.5, c = 189.8 A, beta = 90.0 degrees and four monomers in the asymmetric unit. Analysis of the intensity statistics showed that the crystals were pseudo-merohedrally twinned, with a twinning fraction of 0.37. X-ray diffraction data were collected at 1.6 A resolution using synchrotron radiation. 
18171630	20080104	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	A single amino acid substitution in highly similar endo-PGs from Fusarium verticillioides and related Fusarium species affects PGIP inhibition.	Endo-polygalacturonase (PG) may be a critical virulence factor secreted by several fungi upon plant invasion. The single-copy gene encoding PG in Fusarium verticillioides and in eight other species of the Gibberella fujikuroi complex (F. sacchari, F. fujikuroi, F. proliferatum, F. subglutinans, F. thapsinum, F. nygamai, F. circinatum, and F. anthophilum) was functionally analyzed in this paper. Both the nucleotide and amino acid sequences were highly similar among the 12 strains of F. verticillioides analyzed, as well as among those from the G. fujikuroi complex. The PGs were not inhibited by the polygalacturonase-inhibiting proteins (PGIPs) from the monocot asparagus and leek plants, but were inhibited to variable extents by bean PGIP. PGs from F. verticillioides, F. nygamai and one strain of F. proliferatum were barely inhibited. Residue 97 within PG was demonstrated to contribute to the different levels of inhibition. Together these findings provide new insights into the structural and functional relationships between the PG from the species of the G. fujikuroi complex and the plant PGIP. 
15008811	20040311	Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	An immunological approach to quantifying the saprotrophic growth dynamics of Trichoderma species during antagonistic interactions with Rhizoctonia solani in a soil-less mix.	Studies of the saprotrophic growth dynamics of Trichoderma species and their fungal hosts during antagonistic interactions are severely hampered by the absence of methods that allow the unambiguous identification and quantification of individual genera in complex environments such as soil or compost containing mixed populations of fungi. Furthermore, methods are required that allow discrimination between active hyphal growth and other components of fungal biomass such as quiescent spores that are produced in large numbers by Trichoderma species. This study details the use of monoclonal antibodies to quantify the saprotrophic growth dynamics of the soil-borne plant pathogen Rhizoctonia solani and biological control strains of Trichoderma asperellum and Trichoderma harzianum during antagonistic interactions in peat-based microcosms. Quantification was based on the immunological detection of constitutive, extracellular antigens that are secreted from the growing tip of Rhizoctonia and Trichoderma mycelium and, in the case of Trichoderma harzianum, from quiescent phialoconidia also. The Trichoderma-specific monoclonal antibody (MF2) binds to a protein epitope of the enzyme glucoamylase, which was shown by immunofluorescence and immunogold electron gold microscopy studies of Trichoderma virens in vitro to be produced at the origin of germ tube emergence in phialoconidia and from the growing tip of germ tubes. In addition, a non-destructive immunoblotting technique showed that the enzyme was secreted during active growth of Trichoderma asperellum mycelium in peat. The Rhizoctonia solani-specific monoclonal antibody (EH2) similarly binds to a protein epitope of a glycoprotein that is secreted during active mycelial growth. Extracts derived from lyophilized mycelium were used as a quantifiable and repeatable source of antigens for construction of calibration curves. These curves were used to convert the absorbance values obtained in ELISA tests of peat extracts to biomass equivalents, which allowed comparisons of the saprotrophic growth dynamics of the pathogen and antagonists to be made in single or mixed species microcosms. Trichoderma species were able to compete successfully with R. solani for nutrients and to prevent saprotrophic growth of the pathogen. Specificity of the Trichoderma quantitative assay was tested in non-sterile soil-based microcosms artificially inoculated with T. asperellum. The assay was highly specific and only detected T. asperellum population dynamics. No cross-reactivity was found with extracts from soil samples containing contaminant fungi. 
3042166	19880501	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	MAL64c is a global regulator of alpha-glucoside fermentation: identification of a new gene involved in melezitose fermentation.	Maltase constitutive mutants at the MAL6 locus have been mapped to the newly identified regulatory gene MAL64c. We show here that MAL64c has in addition pleiotropic effects on sugar fermentation: MAL64c strains constitutively synthesize an alpha-methylglucosidase and can complement a new gene, MTP1, for the fermentation of melezitose and alpha-methylglucoside. MTP1, maps near MAL1, and either encodes a permease which transports melezitose, alpha-methylglucoside, and maltose or regulates the activity of such a permease. This work shows that MAL64c, a trans-acting regulatory gene, is a global regulatory gene affecting several different pathways of alpha-glucoside metabolism. 
8203145	19940101	Yeast	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Characterization of the KIN2 gene product in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and comparison between the kinase activities of p145KIN1 and p145KIN2.	We have isolated two yeast genes, KIN1 and KIN2, by their homology to the protein kinase family of viral oncogenes. Previous studies have identified the yeast KIN1 gene product (pp145KIN1) as a 145 kilodalton (kDa) phosphoprotein with serine/threonine-specific protein kinase activity. To identify and biochemically characterize the KIN2 gene product, antibodies were raised against a bacterial beta-galactosidase/KIN2 fusion polypeptide. In vivo, the KIN2 gene product is a 145 kDa phosphoprotein, pp145KIN2. In immune complexes, pp145KIN2 demonstrates serine/threonine protein kinase activity, transferring phosphate from [gamma-32P]ATP to either itself or the exogenously added substrates alpha-casein, acid-denatured enolase, or phosvitin. In vitro, kinase activity is dependent on either Mn2+ or Mg2+ ions. Both enzymes, pp145KIN1 and pp145KIN2, prefer ATP over GTP as their phosphoryl donor. Since a new class of yeast protein kinases has been identified which are serine/tyrosine-specific, we analysed a wide range of substrates to see if any could be phosphorylated by pp145KIN1 or pp145KIN2 on tyrosine residues. Both enzymes phosphorylate alpha-casein, acid-denatured enolase, and phosvitin on serine and threonine residues. Neither enzyme could phosphorylate tyrosine residues even though good substrates for tyrosine-specific kinases such as enolase, angiotensin II, and the synthetic polymer GLU80TYR20 were used. The biochemical analysis of KIN2 kinase activity shows remarkable similarity to that of its most closely related yeast kinase, KIN1. It remains to be seen if these two yeast protein kinases share any functional relationships or substrates in vivo. 
8166646	19940401	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	The potential dolichol recognition sequence of beta-1,4-mannosyltransferase is not required for enzymic activity using phytanyl-pyrophosphoryl-alpha-N,N'- diacetylchitobioside as acceptor.	The ALG1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes beta-1,4-mannosyltransferase, an essential membrane-associated enzyme involved in the assembly of dolichyl-linked oligosaccharide precursors for N-glycosylation [Albright and Robbins (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 7042-7049], which catalyses the transfer of a mannose residue from GDP-mannose to dolichyl-pyrophosphoryl-alpha-N,N'- diacetylchitobioside; it also possesses a putative transmembrane domain, bearing an 11-amino-acid consensus sequence, which has been proposed to mediate dolichol recognition. Here we report the construction and bacterial expression of a mutant beta-1,4-mannosyltransferase derived from ALG1, which carries a 34-amino-acid deletion resulting in the absence of the entire N-terminal transmembrane domain. This truncated enzyme has an apparent Km value of 17 microM for phytanyl-pyrophosphoryl-alpha-N,N'-diacetylchitobioside, a known acceptor for beta-1,4-mannosyltransferase [Flitsch, Pinches, Taylor and Turner (1992) J. Chem. Soc., Perkin Trans. 1, 2087-2093]. The intact enzyme, expressed in the same system, has an apparent Km value of 25 microM. These figures are in good agreement with previously reported values for wild-type beta-1,4-mannosyl-transferase incubated with the natural dolichyl-linked substrate. Gel-filtration chromatography (before and after beta-mannosidase digestion) of the products of both forms of the enzyme verifies the formation of Man beta 1-->4GlcNAc beta 1-->4GlcNAc. We therefore conclude that the putative dolichol recognition sequence is not necessary for recognition of the phytanyl analogue of its natural dolichol substrate and suggest it probably also is not needed for its natural substrate. 
6806012	19820401	CRC_Crit._Rev._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	The biosynthetic pathway of the asparagine-linked oligosaccharides of glycoproteins.	This review deals with the structure and addition of the different types of oligosaccharides to asparagine residues in proteins. This process occurs in several steps, first an oligosaccharide which contains N-acetylglucosamine mannose and glucose is built up joined to dolichyl diphosphate. The oligosaccharide is then transferred to a polypeptide chain, loses its glucose, and is modified by removal of some monosaccharides and addition of others giving rise to a variety of saccharides. 
22082447	20111116	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Changes in the content of bioactive polyphenolic compounds of olive mill wastewater by the action of exogenous enzymes.	The aim behind the present research is to develop an enzymatic treatment for olive mill wastewater (OMW) to release high amounts of simple phenolics having high antioxidant value. OMW was hydrolyzed by a mixed enzyme preparation rich in β-glucosidase produced by  Aspergillus niger . This research shows that A. niger β-glucosidase played a major role in the release of simple phenolic compounds from OMW. These compounds were recovered by ethyl acetate extraction and identified by HPLC and LC-MS. The main identified phenolic compound is hydroxytyrosol. The results of enzymatic hydrolysis of OMW under optimum conditions indicated a maximum hydroxytyrosol concentration of 2.9 g L(-1) compared to 0.015 g L(-1) contained in the control (test without added enzyme). The above results prove that OMW is a potential substrate for producing hydroxytyrosol through enzymatic hydrolysis of its glycosides. 
18414798	20080417	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Degradation of cellulose by the major endoglucanase produced from the brown-rot fungus Fomitopsis pinicola.	An endoglucanase that is able to degrade both crystalline and amorphous cellulose was purified from the culture filtrates of the brown-rot fungus Fomitopsis pinicola grown on cellulose. An apparent molecular weight of the purified enzyme was approximately 32 kDa by SDS-PAGE analysis. The enzyme was purified 11-fold with a specific activity of 944 U/mg protein against CMC. The partial amino acid sequences of the purified endoglucanase had high homology with endo-beta-1,4-glucanase of glycosyl hydrolase family 5 from other fungi. The K(m) and K(cat)values for CMC were 12 mg CMC/ml and 670/s, respectively. The purified EG hydrolyzed both cellotetraose (G4) and cellopentaose (G5), but did not degrade either cellobiose (G2) or cellotriose (G3). 
1592244	19920501	Genetics	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Selection for early meiotic mutants in yeast.	In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, only a/alpha cells can enter meiosis; a and alpha cells cannot. Because a/alpha cells are typically diploid and a and alpha cells are typically haploid, this cell type restriction ensures that only diploid cells enter meiosis. Entry into meiosis is accompanied by an increase in expression of the IME1 gene; the IME1 product (IME1) then activates IME2 and other meiotic genes. We have found that IME1 expression is toxic to starved haploid cells, presumably because IME1 directs them into meiosis. IME1 toxicity is greater in rad52 mutants, in which meiotic recombination causes lethal damage. Suppressors of IME1 toxicity include recessive mutations in two genes, RIM11 and RIM16 (Regulator of Inducer of Meiosis), that are required for IME1 to activate IME2 expression. RIM11 maps near CIN4 on chromosome XIII. 
22548968	20120503	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Engineering the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica for the production of therapeutic proteins homogeneously glycosylated with Man₈GlcNAc₂ and Man₅GlcNAc₂.	Protein-based therapeutics represent the fastest growing class of compounds in the pharmaceutical industry. This has created an increasing demand for powerful expression systems. Yeast systems are widely used, convenient and cost-effective. Yarrowia lipolytica is a suitable host that is generally regarded as safe (GRAS). Yeasts, however, modify their glycoproteins with heterogeneous glycans containing mainly mannoses, which complicates downstream processing and often interferes with protein function in man. Our aim was to glyco-engineer Y. lipolytica to abolish the heterogeneous, yeast-specific glycosylation and to obtain homogeneous human high-mannose type glycosylation. We engineered Y. lipolytica to produce homogeneous human-type terminal-mannose glycosylated proteins, i.e. glycosylated with Man₈GlcNAc₂ or Man₅GlcNAc₂. First, we inactivated the yeast-specific Golgi α-1,6-mannosyltransferases YlOch1p and YlMnn9p; the former inactivation yielded a strain producing homogeneous Man₈GlcNAc₂ glycoproteins. We tested this strain by expressing glucocerebrosidase and found that the hypermannosylation-related heterogeneity was eliminated. Furthermore, detailed analysis of N-glycans showed that YlOch1p and YlMnn9p, despite some initial uncertainty about their function, are most likely the α-1,6-mannosyltransferases responsible for the addition of the first and second mannose residue, respectively, to the glycan backbone. Second, introduction of an ER-retained α-1,2-mannosidase yielded a strain producing proteins homogeneously glycosylated with Man₅GlcNAc₂. The use of the endogenous LIP2pre signal sequence and codon optimization greatly improved the efficiency of this enzyme. We generated a Y. lipolytica expression platform for the production of heterologous glycoproteins that are homogenously glycosylated with either Man₈GlcNAc₂ or Man₅GlcNAc₂ N-glycans. This platform expands the utility of Y. lipolytica as a heterologous expression host and makes it possible to produce glycoproteins with homogeneously glycosylated N-glycans of the human high-mannose-type, which greatly broadens the application scope of these glycoproteins. 
20553392	20100618	New_Phytol.	D016428 D013485 	Belowground carbon allocation by trees drives seasonal patterns of extracellular enzyme activities by altering microbial community composition in a beech forest soil.	*Plant seasonal cycles alter carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) availability for soil microbes, which may affect microbial community composition and thus feed back on microbial decomposition of soil organic material and plant N availability. The temporal dynamics of these plant-soil interactions are, however, unclear. *Here, we experimentally manipulated the C and N availability in a beech forest through N fertilization or tree girdling and conducted a detailed analysis of the seasonal pattern of microbial community composition and decomposition processes over 2 yr. *We found a strong relationship between microbial community composition and enzyme activities over the seasonal course. Phenoloxidase and peroxidase activities were highest during late summer, whereas cellulase and protease peaked in late autumn. Girdling, and thus loss of mycorrhiza, resulted in an increase in soil organic matter-degrading enzymes and a decrease in cellulase and protease activity. *Temporal changes in enzyme activities suggest a switch of the main substrate for decomposition between summer (soil organic matter) and autumn (plant litter). Our results indicate that ectomycorrhizal fungi are possibly involved in autumn cellulase and protease activity. Our study shows that, through belowground C allocation, trees significantly alter soil microbial communities, which may affect seasonal patterns of decomposition processes. 
16028202	20050720	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 	Biodegradation study of crop residues as affected by exogenous inorganic nitrogen and fungal inoculants.	The comparative decomposition of chickpea residue, and chopped and unchopped wheat straw was investigated in pits for 120 days. Microbial biomass, humus, C/N ratio, pH, Electrical conductivity (EC), dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase, cellulase, xylanase, total phenol and soluble protein were determined to assess their response to the addition of inorganic nitrogen and mixed fungal inoculum of Aspergillus nidulans, Phanerochaete chrysosporium and Trichoderma viride. The evaluation of physico-chemical parameters (organic matter, organic carbon, N, C/N, pH, EC, microbial biomass) revealed that by supplementing unchopped wheat straw with 1% urea and mixed fungal inoculum, a lowest C/N ratio of 10.7, lowest biomass of 9.54 and highest humus content of 13% can be achieved within 3 months. Germination of Lepidium sativum (cress seeds) showed a germination index >60%, in this treatment. The enzyme assay for dehydrogenase indicated highest microbial activity in uninoculated treatments compared to fungal inoculated counterparts, in the second month sampling (active phase of composting). However, cellulase and xylanase activity showed an upward trend during curing phase of composting. Chickpea residue compost, though resulted in a C/N ratio of 17.3, but its germination index was less than 60%. The rapid quality tests conducted for H2S, NH3, NO3 and starch confirmed the stability and maturity of finished compost prepared from wheat straw through microbial inoculants. 
20154467	20100216	Proc._Jpn._Acad.,_Ser._B,_Phys._Biol._Sci.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Recent development of two chitinase inhibitors, Argifin and Argadin, produced by soil microorganisms.	Chitin, the second most abundant polysaccharide in nature, occurs in fungi, some algae and many invertebrates, including insects. Thus, chitin synthesis and degradation could represent specific targets for fungicides and insecticides. Chitinases hydrolyze chitin into oligomers of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine at key points in the life cycles of organisms, consequently, chitinase inhibitors have become subject of increasing interest. This review covers the development of two chitinase inhibitors of natural origin, Argifin and Argadin, isolated from the cultured broth of microorganisms in our laboratory. In particular, the practical total synthesis of these natural products, the synthesis of lead compounds via computer-aided rational molecular design, and discovery methods that generate only highly-active compounds using a kinetic target(chitinase)-guided synthesis approach (termed in situ click chemistry) are described. 
10618381	20000105	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Yeast flavin-containing monooxygenase is induced by the unfolded protein response.	Flavin-containing monooxygenase from yeast (yFMO) carries out the O(2)- and NADPH-dependent oxidation of biological thiols, including oxidizing glutathione to glutathione disulfide. FMO provides a large fraction of the oxidizing necessary for proper folding of disulfide bond-containing proteins; deletion of the enzyme reduces proper folding of endogenous carboxypeptidase Y by about 40%. The enzyme is not essential to cell viability because other enzymes can generate a significant fraction of the oxidizing equivalents required by the cell. However, yFMO is vital to the yeast response to reductive stress. FMO1 deletion mutants grow poorly under reductive stress, and carboxypeptidase Y activity is less than 10% of that in a stressed wild type. The FMO1 gene appears to be under control of an unfolded protein response element and is inducible by factors, such as reductive stress, that elicit the unfolded protein response. Reductive stress can increase yFMO activity at least 6-fold. This increased activity allows the cell to process endogenous disulfide bond-containing proteins and also to allow correct folding of disulfide-bonded proteins expressed from multicopy plasmids. The unfolded protein response is mediated by the Hac1p transcription factor that mediates virtually all of the induction of yFMO triggered by exogenous reducing agents. 
3045759	19880811	Nucleic_Acids_Res.	D016428 D013485 	A novel yeast secretion signal isolated from 28K killer precursor protein encoded on the linear DNA plasmid pGKL1.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae harboring linear dsDNA plasmids, pGKL1 and pGKL2, secretes a killer toxin consisting of 97, 31 and 28 kilodalton subunits (Nucleic Acids Res., 15, 1031-1046, 1987). We isolated the DNA encoding the N-terminal pre-sequence of the 28K precursor protein and constructed a new secretion vector in S. cerevisiae. Mouse alpha-amylase fused to the 28K signal sequence was secreted into the culture medium with a high efficiency similar to those fused to the mating factor alpha and 97K-31K killer signal sequences. This data clearly indicates that 28K presequence functions as a secretion signal. Glycosylated and nonglycosylated alpha-amylase molecules were detected in the culture medium. The secretion of alpha-amylase was blocked by sec18-1 mutation. The secreted alpha-amylase recovered from the medium was found to migrate faster in SDS-polyacrylamide gel than the precursor form of alpha-amylase synthesized in vitro. These lines of evidence suggest that mouse alpha-amylase fused to 28K killer signal sequence was processed, glycosylated and secreted through the normal secretion pathway of the yeast. 
9726123	19980903	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Regulation of pectic enzymes from the exo-1 mutant strain of Neurospora crassa: effects of glucose, galactose, and galacturonic acid.	The exo-1 mutant of Neurospora crassa produced and secreted pectolytic activities when incubated in the presence of pectin-containing biological materials. This study shows that polygalacturonase, pectate lyase and pectin lyase activities were induced in media supplemented with galactose or galacturonic acid, indicating that these sugars induced the synthesis of pectinases. Pectinesterase activity was undetectable. Polygalacturonase activity was better induced by galactose than by galacturonic acid. The reverse was true for lyase activities. The inducing effect of galactose and galacturonic acid seemed to be different: (i) a mixture of galactose and galacturonic acid synergistically increased the production of pectic enzymes, as compared to that in the presence of one of these sugars; (ii) the inducing effect of galacturonic acid was partially repressed by glucose; (iii) in contrast, the inducing effect of galactose, rather than repressed, was enhanced by the presence of glucose. Altogether, these data point out to a complex mechanism of regulation of pectolytic enzymes by pectin-containing organic substances. 
14627738	20031125	Protein_Sci.	D016428 D013486 	The Humicola grisea Cel12A enzyme structure at 1.2 A resolution and the impact of its free cysteine residues on thermal stability.	As part of a program to discover improved glycoside hydrolase family 12 (GH 12) endoglucanases, we have extended our previous work on the structural and biochemical diversity of GH 12 homologs to include the most stable fungal GH 12 found, Humicola grisea Cel12A. The H. grisea enzyme was much more stable to irreversible thermal denaturation than the Trichoderma reesei enzyme. It had an apparent denaturation midpoint (T(m)) of 68.7 degrees C, 14.3 degrees C higher than the T. reesei enzyme. There are an additional three cysteines found in the H. grisea Cel12A enzyme. To determine their importance for thermal stability, we constructed three H. grisea Cel12A single mutants in which these cysteines were exchanged with the corresponding residues in the T. reesei enzyme. We also introduced these cysteine residues into the T. reesei enzyme. The thermal stability of these variants was determined. Substitutions at any of the three positions affected stability, with the largest effect seen in H. grisea C206P, which has a T(m) 9.1 degrees C lower than that of the wild type. The T. reesei cysteine variant that gave the largest increase in stability, with a T(m) 3.9 degrees C higher than wild type, was the P201C mutation, the converse of the destabilizing C206P mutation in H. grisea. To help rationalize the results, we have determined the crystal structure of the H. grisea enzyme and of the most stable T. reesei cysteine variant, P201C. The three cysteines in H. grisea Cel12A play an important role in the thermal stability of this protein, although they are not involved in a disulfide bond. 
21124063	20101203	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 	Construction of high sensitive detection system for endocrine disruptors with yeast n-alkane-assimilating Yarrowia lipolytica.	To construct a highly sensitive detection system for endocrine disruptors, we have compared the activity of promoters with the ALK1, ICL1, RPS7 and TEF1 for heterologous gene in Yarrowia lipolytica. The promoters were introduced into the upstream of lacZ or hERalpha reporter gene, respectively, and the activity was evaluated by beta-galactosidase assay by lacZ or western blot analysis by hERalpha. The expression analysis revealed that the ALK1 and ICL1 promoter were induced by n-decane and by EtOH, respectively. The constitutive promoter of RPS7 and TEF1 showed mostly high level of expression in the presence of glucose and glycerol, respectively. Particularly, the TEF1 promoter showed the highest beta-galactosidase activity and a significant signal by western blotting with the anti-estrogen receptor compared with the other promoters. Moreover, the detection system was constructed with promoters were linked to the upstream of expression vector for hERalpha gene transformed into the Y. lipolytica with a chromosome-integrated lacZ reporter gene under the control of estrogen response elements (EREs). It was indicated that a combination of pTEF1p-hERalpha and CXAU1-2XERE was the most effective system for the E2-dependent induction of the beta-galactosidase activity. This system showed the highest beta-galactosidase activity at 10-6 M E2 and the activity could be detected at even the concentration of 10-10 M E2. As the result, we constructed a strongly sensitive detection system with Y. lipolitica to evaluate recognized/suspected ED chemicals, such as natural/synthetic hormones, pesticides, and commercial chemicals. The results demonstrate the utility, sensitivity and reproducibility of the system for characterizing environmental estrogens. 
18813924	20080925	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Construction of an Aspergillus oryzae cell-surface display system using a putative GPI-anchored protein.	A novel cell-surface display system was constructed in Aspergillus oryzae. Each of the five genes encoding the putative cell-wall-localized protein from the A. oryzae genome was cloned and these cell-surface anchor functions were examined by fusion to the C-terminal of the green fluorescent protein (GFP). Using the MP1 and CWP proteins as anchor proteins, GFP signals were strongly observed on the cell surface of recombinant A. oryzae. When these proteins were used as anchor proteins for cell-surface display of beta-glucosidase from A. oryzae, enzyme activity was detected on the cell surface. In particular, beta-glucosidase activity of recombinant A. oryzae using MP1, a putative glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor protein was higher than CWP. Based on these results, it was concluded that the MP1 protein can act as a GPI-anchor protein in A. oryzae, and the proposed cell-surface display system using MP1 allows for the display of heterogeneous and endogenous proteins. 
19515400	20090612	Sci._Total_Environ.	D016428 D013485 	Improvement of growth of Eucalyptus globulus and soil biological parameters by amendment with sewage sludge and inoculation with arbuscular mycorrhizal and saprobe fungi.	Sewage sludge is widely used as an organic soil amendment to improve soil fertility. We investigated the effects of sewage sludge (SS) application on certain biological parameters of Eucalyptus globulus Labill. The plant was either uninoculated or inoculated with saprobe fungi (Coriolopsis rigida and Trichoderma harzianum) or arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi (Glomus deserticola and Gigaspora rosea). Sewage sludge was applied to the surface of experimental plots at rates of 0, 2, 4, 6 and 8 g 100 g(-1) of soil. Inoculation with both AM and saprobe fungi in the presence of SS was essential for the promotion of plant growth. The AM, saprobe fungi and SS significantly increased dry shoot weight. The AM fungi induced a significant increase in Fluorescein diacetate (FDA) activity but did not increase beta-glucosidase activity. Addition of SS to AM-inoculated soil did not affect either FDA or alpha-glucosidase activities in plants from soil that was either uninoculated or inoculated with the saprobe fungi. SS increased beta-glucosidase activity when it was applied at 4 g 100 g(-1). SS negatively affected AM colonization as well as the mycelium SDH activity for both mycorrhizal fungi. SS increased Eucalyptus shoot biomass and enhanced its nutrient status. Inoculation of the soil with G. deserticola stimulated significant E. globulus growth and increases in shoot tissue content of N, P, K, Ca, Mg and Fe. Dual inoculation with G. deserticola and either of the saprobe fungi had positive effects on K, Ca, Mg and Fe contents. The application of 8 g 100 g(-1) of SS had no positive effects on plant nutrition. The experimental setup provided a suitable tool for evaluating SS in combination with saprobe and AM fungi as a biological fertiliser for its beneficial effects on E. globulus plant growth. 
3124698	19870101	Ann._N._Y._Acad._Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Investigation of the action mechanism of a cellodextrin glucohydrolase using soluble cellodextrins as substrates.	A mathematical model was developed that can satisfactorily describe the system of parallel and series reactions during the degradation of cellodextrins by a glucohydrolase in batch experiments. The enzyme sequentially splits off glucose units from the oligomer chains. Using a thin-channel membrane reactor, the model was then shown to be able to predict the conversion of cellohexaose in continuous experiments. This has, to the best of our knowledge, been the first time that such an oligosaccharide conversion has been experimentally followed and modeled for a continuous stirred tank reactor. 
20870771	20100928	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D052061 	Identification of YsrT and evidence that YsrRST constitute a unique phosphorelay system in Yersinia enterocolitica.	Two-component systems (TCS) and phosphorelay systems are mechanisms used by bacteria and fungi to quickly adapt to environmental changes to produce proteins necessary for survival in new environments. Bacterial pathogens use TCS and phosphorelay systems to regulate genes necessary to establish infection within their hosts, including type III secretion systems (T3SS). The Yersinia enterocolitica ysa T3SS is activated in response to NaCl by YsrS and YsrR, a putative hybrid sensor kinase and a response regulator, respectively. Hybrid TCS consist of a sensor kinase that typically has three well-conserved sites of phosphorylation: autophosphorylation site H1, D1 within a receiver domain, and H2 in the histidine phosphotransferase (HPt) domain. From H2, the phosphoryl group is transferred to D2 on the response regulator. A curious feature of YsrS is that it lacks the terminal HPt domain. We report here the identification of the HPt-containing protein (YsrT) that provides this activity for the Ysr system. YsrT is an 82-residue protein predicted to be cytosolic and α-helical in nature and is encoded by a gene adjacent to ysrS. To demonstrate predicted functions of YsrRST as a phosphorelay system, we introduced alanine substitutions at H1, D1, H2, and D2 and tested the mutant proteins for the ability to activate a ysaE-lacZ reporter. As expected, substitutions at H1, H2, and D2 resulted in a loss of activation of ysaE expression. This indicates an interruption of normal protein function, most likely from loss of phosphorylation. A similar result was expected for D1; however, an intriguing "constitutive on" phenotype was observed. In addition, the unusual feature of a separate HPt domain led us to compare the sequences surrounding the ysrS-ysrT junction in several Yersinia strains. In every strain examined, ysrT is a separate gene, leading to speculation that there is a functional advantage to YsrT being an independent protein. 
15116339	20040430	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Structural analysis of glucoamylase encoded by the STA1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (var. diastaticus).	The sequence of the STA1-encoded glucoamylase of amylolytic Saccharomyces cerevisiae (var. diastaticus) strains shows two well-defined regions: an amino-terminal part rich in serine and threonine residues and a carboxy-terminal part very similar to the catalytic domain of other fungal glucoamylases. A version of the enzyme in which most of the amino-terminal region was deleted still has glucoamylase activity, indicating that the remaining carboxy-terminal part forms a functional catalytic domain. Homology-based models of the two parts of the protein have been obtained. As expected, the shortened form of the enzyme is very similar to the catalytic domain of related glucoamylases of known structure. However, the amino-terminal part yielded a structure revealing an unexpected similarity to bacterial invasins, suggesting functional connections between several yeast proteins homologous to STA1-encoded glucoamylase and invasins. A characteristic of Saccharomyces glucoamylase in its native form is its extreme degree of glycosylation. Despite its high molecular mass (about 300 kDa), and in contrast with what occurs with other extracellular glycoproteins produced by yeast, the enzyme does not remain attached to the cell wall, being fully and efficiently secreted into the medium, even when it is produced in large amounts by overexpression of its gene. 
12761077	20030523	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	A recombinant beta-1,3-glucanosyltransferase homolog of Coccidioides posadasii protects mice against coccidioidomycosis.	Coccidioides posadasii is a fungal respiratory pathogen which is responsible for recurrent epidemics of San Joaquin Valley fever (coccidioidomycosis) in desert regions of the southwestern United States. Numerous studies have revealed that the cell wall of the parasitic phase of the fungus is a reservoir of immunoreactive macromolecules and a potential source of a vaccine against this mycosis. A 495-bp fragment of a C. posadasii gene which encodes a putative wall-associated, glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored beta-1,3-glucanosyltransferase was identified by computational analysis of the partially sequenced genome of this pathogen. The translated, full-length gene (GEL1) showed high sequence homology to a reported beta-1,3-glucanosyltransferase of Aspergillus fumigatus (70% identity, 90% similarity) and was selected for further study. The GEL1 mRNA of C. posadasii was detected at the highest level during the endosporulation stage of the parasitic cycle, and the mature protein was immunolocalized to the surface of endospores. BALB/c or C57BL/6 mice were immunized subcutaneously with the bacterium-expressed recombinant protein (rGel1p) to evaluate its protective efficacy against a lethal challenge of C. posadasii by either the intraperitoneal or intranasal route. In both cases, rGel1p-immune mice infected with the pathogen showed a significant reduction in fungal burden and increased survival compared to nonimmune mice. The recombinant beta-1,3-glucanosyltransferase is a valuable addition to an arsenal of immunoreactive proteins which could be incorporated into a human vaccine against coccidioidomycosis. 
18065172	20071211	Int_J_Pharm	D016428 D013485 	Improved transfection efficiency of CS/DNA complex by co-transfected chitosanase gene.	Previously, we had demonstrated that insufficient intracellular unpacking of exogene from its chitosan carrier contributes towards the restricted transfection efficiency of CS/DNA complex. In order to enhance intracellular unpacking and thus improve the transfection efficiency, our present work has addressed a novel strategy of chitosanase gene (csn) co-transfection. An Aspergillus fumigatuscsn gene was semi-synthesized and cloned into a prokaryotic expression vector, plasmid pGEX-3X, meanwhile a mutant csn gene encoding an inactive Asp129-Asn chitosanase was generated by site-directed mutagenesis. Both active csn (acCSN) and inactive csn (inCSN) genes were expressed in bacteria cells and chitosan degradation activities of those purified recombinant proteins were tested. These csn genes were further subcloned into an eukaryotic expression vector, plasmid pTracer-CMV/Bsd, containing a gfp reporter gene. Recombinant plasmid pTracer-accsn or pTracer-incsn was co-transfected with plasmid pTracer/Bsd/LacZ, which contains an additional lacZ reporter gene, into C2C12 myoblast cells by CS/DNA complex. The expression of gfp reporter gene was determined by fluorescence microscope, while the expression of lacZ reporter was evaluated quantitatively by beta-galactosidase activity. All together, findings indicate that during the exogene being delivered into mammalian cells by CS/DNA complex, the csn co-transfection is beneficial for the exogene expression. 
7200805	19820401	Biokhimiia	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Regulation of the formation and conversion of intermediate cellooligosaccharides and cellobiose during ezymatic hydrolysis of insoluble cellulose].	A kinetic analysis of the main regularities for formation and consumption of the intermediate metabolites (i.e. cellooligosaccharides and cellobiose) in the course of enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose has been performed. The boundary relationships between the velocities of the individual steps of hydrolysis controlling the transition of the multienzyme cellulase system to be steady-state with respect to the intermediate metabolites were revealed. Using the kinetic approaches developed here, the values of the steady-state concentrations of insoluble intermediate oligosaccharides were determined experimentally for a number of cellulases from the fungi Trichoderma and Geotrichum. It was shown experimentally that when studying the kinetics of enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose it is necessary to take into account the structural irregularities of the insoluble substrate even when a practically negligible fraction of it (with respect  to its weight) is converted to soluble products. In other cases the kinetic parameters obtained could not be corresponding to the actual reactivity of the cellulose/cellulase system, reflecting rather a difference in reactivity between the labile (amorphous) and stable (crystalline) fractions of a cellulose substrate. 
6420082	19840101	Chem._Biol._Interact.	D016428 D013485 	The stage specific inhibition of Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination by the mutagen 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide.	The drug 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4NQO) is a potent inhibitor of Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination. This inexpensive, water soluble drug is active at a concentration of 5 micrograms/ml (26 microM) and permeates the spore at all stages in germination. Spores subjected to 4NQO treatment exhibit an irreversible blockage of myxamoebae emergence, but spore activation, post-activation lag, and swelling are not affected. Swollen 4NQO-treated spores lose the outer two spore walls but lack the ability to degrade the innermost wall. The drug does not affect oxygen uptake during post-activation lag or swelling, and only a stage specific depression in O2 uptake is observed when control spores begin to release myxamoebae. When added early in germination, 4NQO blocks the incorporation of [3H] uracil into a cold trichloroacetic acid (TCA) insoluble fraction by 98%. However, when the drug is added midway through germination and followed by a pulse labelling period of 1 h, only 65% inhibition of RNA synthesis is observed. This lack of complete inhibition may occur because the drug requires metabolic activation; thus, new rounds of RNA synthesis may have initiated before the drug became fully activated. 4NQO also blocks the de novo expression of beta-glucosidase activity when added early in germination. Additionally, we observe that vegetative cellular slime mold cells are 100 times more resistant than spores to 4NQO-induced damage. Taken together, our results support the observation that RNA synthesis is only required for the emergence stage of germination and that dormant D. discoideum spores may lack efficient excision repair mechanisms. 
17509848	20070519	Mycol._Res.	D016428 	Identification of two group A chitinase genes in Botrytis cinerea which are differentially induced by exogenous chitin.	Chitin-degrading enzymes represent potential targets for pesticides in the control of plant pathogenic fungi. Here we describe the cloning, molecular characterization, and expression analysis of two putative chitinases of Botrytis cinerea, a pathogenic fungus infecting a wide range of plants. On the basis of conserved motifs from family 18 of the glycosyl hydrolases and group A of the fungal chitinases, two fragments (BcchiA and BcchiB) were cloned and sequenced. Expression of BcchiA and BcchiB chitinase genes upon growth under different conditions was analysed using RT-PCR. We observed that BcchiA expression was suppressed by glucose, whereas it was strongly stimulated in the presence of chitin or chitin degradation products. Conversely, BcchiB expression was not suppressed by glucose and was not stimulated by chitin or chitin degradation products. The difference in expression regulation is indicative of a functional divergence between the two chitinase paralogous genes. 
7838157	19940901	Mol._Endocrinol.	D016428 D013487 	A chimeric thyroid hormone receptor constitutively bound to DNA requires retinoid X receptor for hormone-dependent transcriptional activation in yeast.	T3 receptors (TRs) regulate transcription by binding to specific DNA response elements as heterodimers with the retinoid X receptors (RXRs). To study the consequences of this heterodimerization for transcriptional regulation in the absence of complications associated with its effects on DNA binding affinity, we expressed in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae a chimeric protein consisting of the rat TR beta 1 ligand-binding domain fused to the DNA-binding domain of the bacterial repressor lexA (lexATR). LexATR is a weak, T3-responsive activator of a beta-galactosidase reporter gene controlled by upstream lexA-binding sites (lexA-beta-gal). In contrast, coexpression of human RXR alpha (hRXR alpha) strongly enhances both the basal and ligand-induced transcriptional activities. Both the N-terminal activation domain of RXR and sequences at the extreme C terminus of lexATR are required for this T3- and RXR-dependent transcriptional activation. The lexATR chimera was also used to characterize receptor-receptor interactions using the two-hybrid system. Coexpression of B42RXR, a fusion protein of the human RXR alpha ligand-binding domain and the B42 transcriptional activation domain, strongly increases the transcriptional activity of lexATR in the absence of T3 or 9-cis-retinoic acid. We conclude that RXR is essential for full, T3-dependent transcriptional activity of the TR in yeast, and that protein-protein interaction of TR and RXR in vivo is ligand-independent. 
20951406	20101019	Chemosphere	D016428 D013485 	Mycelial growth and solid-state fermentation of lignocellulosic waste by white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium under lead stress.	Lignocellulosic biomass is an abundant renewable resource difficult to degrade. Its bioconversion plays important roles in carbon cycles in nature, which may be influenced by heavy metals in environment. Mycelial growth and the degradation of lignocellulosic waste by lignin-degrading fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium under lead stress were studied. It was shown that P. chrysosporium could grow in liquid media with 400 mg L⁻¹ Pb(II), and mycelial dry weight was reduced by 54% compared to the control. Yellow mycelia in irregular short-strip shape formed in Pb-containing media, whereas the control showed ivory-white regular mycelial pellets. Two possible responses to Pb stress were: dense hyphae, and secretion from mycelia to resist Pb. During solid-state fermentation of straw, fungal colonization capability under Pb stress was positively correlated with the removal efficiency of soluble-exchangeable Pb when its content was higher than 8.2 mg kg⁻¹ dry mass. Carboxymethyl cellulase activity and cellulose degradation were inhibited at different Pb concentrations, whereas low Pb concentrations increased xylanase and ligninolytic enzyme activities and the hemicellulose and lignin degradation. Cluster analyses indicated that Pb had similar effects on the different microbial indexes related to lignin and hemicellulose degradation. The present findings will advance the understandings of lignocellulose degradation by fungi under Pb pollution, which could provide useful references for developing metal-polluted waste biotreatment technology. 
14871661	20040212	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D003160 D016428 D013485 D016454 	XIP-I, a xylanase inhibitor protein from wheat: a novel protein function.	Endo-(1,4)-beta-xylanases of plant and fungal origin play an important role in the degradation of arabinoxylans. Two distinct classes of proteinaceous endoxylanase inhibitors, the Triticum aestivum xylanase inhibitor (TAXI) and the xylanase inhibitor protein (XIP), have been identified in cereals. Engineering of proteins in conjunction with enzyme kinetics, thermodynamic, real-time interaction, and X-ray crystallographic studies has provided knowledge on the mechanism of inhibition of XIP-I towards endoxylanases. XIP-I is a 30 kDa protein which belongs to glycoside hydrolase family 18, and folds as a typical (beta/alpha)8 barrel. Although the inhibitor shows highest homology with plant chitinases, XIP-I does not hydrolyse chitin; probably due to structural differences in the XIP-I binding cleft. The inhibitor is specific for fungal xylanases from glycoside hydrolases families 10 and 11, but does not inhibit bacterial enzymes. The inhibition is competitive and, depending on the xylanase, the Ki value can be as low as 3.4 nM. Site-directed mutagenesis of a xylanase from Aspergillus niger suggested that the XIP-I binding site was the conserved hairpin loop "thumb" region of family 11 xylanases. Furthermore, XIP-I shows the ability to inhibit barley alpha-amylases of glycoside hydrolase family 13, providing the first example of a protein able to inhibit members of different glycoside hydrolase families (10, 11, and 13), and additionally a novel function for a protein of glycoside hydrolase family 18. 
19413753	20090506	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Thiamine increases beta-glucosidase production in the newly isolated strain of Fomitopsis pinicola.	To isolate a high beta-glucosidase (BGL)-producing strain and to optimize BGL production in the isolated strain. A high BGL-producing strain was isolated and identified as Fomitopsis pinicola KMJ812 based on its morphology and a comparison of sequence of its internal transcribed spacer rDNA gene. To increase BGL production, F. pinicola was supplemented with various vitamins. Supplementation with thiamine (20 mg l(-1)) improved BGL production in F. pinicola cultures by 3.7-fold to give a specific activity of 114.4 micromol min(-1) mg(-1) protein, one of the highest among BGL-producing micro-organisms. The increased production of BGL in the thiamine-supplemented culture was confirmed by 2D electrophoresis followed by MS/MS sequencing. The BGL purified from F. pinicola culture showed the highest catalytic efficiency ever reported. Supplemental thiamine remarkably increased BGL production by a novel BGL-producing strain, F. pinicola KMJ812. Our results provide a high BGL-producing strain and the production media for BGL production, and should contribute to better industrial production of glucose via biological processes. 
19621226	20090722	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Functional analysis of an alpha-1,2-mannosidase from Magnaporthe oryzae.	Identification of enzymes that are expressed during host colonization and characterization of their biochemical properties are prerequisite to understanding their role in the pathogen-host interaction. Nine alpha-1,2-mannosidase homologs were identified in the analysis of the Magnaporthe oryzae genome. Endoplasmic reticulum localized alpha-1,2-mannosidases play an important role in protein glycosylation. However, several members of the alpha-1,2-mannosidase gene family are predicted to be secreted. The biological role of such extracellular enzymes in host colonization has not been defined. Here, we characterized a secreted alpha-1,2-mannosidase of M. oryzae, MGG_00994.6, and found that the mature polypeptide is a glycoprotein capable of hydrolyzing alpha-1,2 linked mannobiose. The gene is expressed during growth in vitro and during colonization on rice plants, however, deletion of the gene did not affect pathogenicity. Five other members of the alpha-1,2-mannosidase of M. oryzae were expressed with a pattern similar to MGG_00994.6, suggesting the potential for functional redundancy. These results form the basis for additional studies on the role of this gene family in the rice blast fungus and its interaction with rice. 
16186619	20050928	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Microbial synthesis of chitinase in solid cultures and its potential as a biocontrol agent against phytopathogenic fungus Colletotrichum gloeosporioides.	Antifungal activity of chitinase can be effectively utilized in biologic pest control strategies. Because solid-state cultivation has been termed a cost-effective means for fungal growth and metabolite production, chitinase production by Trichoderma harzianum was studied using wheat bran-based solid medium containing 1% colloidal chitin. Chitinase synthesis was found to be growth associated because maximum enzyme (5.4 U/g of dry substrate) and biomass production occurred at 72 h. Substrate moisture had a critical impact on chitinase production; five grams of medium having an initial moisture content of 68.4% when incubated for 72 h increased the enzyme yield to 9.3 U/g of dry substrate. Optimization of colloidal chitin concentration showed that improvements in chitinase yield and maximum activity were attained with a 2% (w/w) concentration. Supplementation of additional nitrogen sources also influenced enzyme production, and the best yield was obtained with yeast extract. The effect of crude chitinase on hyphal morphology of the phytopathogenic fungus Colletotrichum gloeosporioides was swelling as well as lysis of hyphal wall, depending on the age of the mycelium. Studies of pH and thermal stability showed that crude culture filtrate was active over pH 4.0-6.0 and retained about 48.2% activity after 40 min of incubation at 40 degrees C. 
18420985	20080419	Poult._Sci.	D016428 D016449 D013485 	Influence of enzyme supplementation and heat processing of barley on digestive traits and productive performance of broilers.	We studied the influence of enzyme supplementation (ES) of the diet and heat processing (HP) of barley on digestive traits and productive performance of broilers from 1 to 42 d of age. There were 6 diets arranged factorially with 2 doses (0 and 500 ppm) of a fungal enzyme complex with beta-glucanase and xylanase activity and 3 HP of barley (raw, micronized, and expanded). In addition, a control diet based on raw corn without ES was also included from 1 to 21 d of age. Enzymes reduced intestinal viscosity (IV) at all ages (P < or = 0.001) and water intake at 21 d of age (P < or = 0.01) and increased DM of the ileal contents at 28 d (P < or = 0.001). Also, ES increased total tract apparent retention of nutrients and BW gain and feed conversion ratio from 1 to 42 d of age (P < or = 0.001). Heat processing of barley increased IV at 7 and at 28 d of age, and DM of ileal contents (P < or = 0.05) at 28 d of age. In addition, HP improved feed intake (P < or = 0.01) and BW gain (P < or = 0.001) from 1 to 7 d of age, but the effects disappeared after 21 d of age. From 1 to 7 d of age, chicks fed micronized barley had higher IV, gained less weight, and had poorer feed conversion ratio than chicks fed expanded barley (P < or = 0.05). It is concluded that barley with enzymes can substitute for all of the corn in diets fed to broilers from 1 to 21 d of age. Enzymes improved digestive traits, retention of nutrients, and broiler performance from 1 to 42 d of age, and HP of barley improved performance from 1 to 7 d of age. The effects of HP of barley on broiler performance were more evident with expansion than with micronization. 
7654699	19950822	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Mitochondrial functions mediate cellulase gene expression in Trichoderma reesei.	We examined the effects of inhibition of mitochondrial functions on the expression of two nuclear genes encoding the extracellular cellobiohydrolase I (cbh1) and endoglucanase I (egl1) of the cellulase system of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. The cbh1 and egl1 transcripts are repressed at a low oxygen tension, and by glucose at a concentration known to repress mitochondrial respiration. The transcripts are also down-regulated by chemical agents known to dissipate the proton electrochemical gradient of the inner mitochondrial membrane and blocking of the electron-transport chain, such as DNP and KCN, respectively. These results suggest that expression of those transcripts is influenced by the physiological state of the mitochondria. In addition, heterologous gene fusion shows that the sensitivity of the expression of those transcripts to the functional state of the mitochondria is transcriptionally controlled through the 5'-flanking DNA sequence of those genes. 
19268718	20090310	Int._Immunopharmacol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Characterization of the novel chemically modified fungal polysaccharides as the macrophage stimulators.	By means of carboxymethylation, a novel water-soluble carboxymethyl chitin-glucan (CM-CG) was prepared from the mycelium of Aspergillus niger, and its ability to stimulate macrophages was assessed and compared to that of the previously studied carboxymethylated glucan (CMG) from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It was demonstrated that single intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of CMG and CM-CG to the CBA mice led to a significant increase of leukocyte number. At the same time, the number of monocytes in the bone marrow was increased to more than two-fold. Application of both polysaccharides also resulted in the augmented number of liver macrophages and to the rise of their content of the secondary lysosomes. A markedly enhanced carbon clearance was observed as well as the increased release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha by the peritoneal macrophages indicating their amplified phagocytic activity. The effect of CM-CG in these experiments was ca. 1.7 times higher than that of CMG. Administration of both polysaccharides also led to the elevated level of free acid phosphatase in liver homogenate, implying labilization of the lysosomes. Increased serum chitotriosidase also indicated increased macrophage activity. The results obtained indicate similar in vivo macrophage stimulation activity of both applied fungal polysaccharides and suggest their potential clinical use as non-toxic natural compounds. 
11714724	20011121	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Structure of Penicillium citrinum alpha 1,2-mannosidase reveals the basis for differences in specificity of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi class I enzymes.	Class I alpha1,2-mannosidases (glycosylhydrolase family 47) are key enzymes in the maturation of N-glycans. This protein family includes two distinct enzymatically active subgroups. Subgroup 1 includes the yeast and human endoplasmic reticulum (ER) alpha1,2-mannosidases that primarily trim Man(9)GlcNAc(2) to Man(8)GlcNAc(2) isomer B whereas subgroup 2 includes mammalian Golgi alpha1,2-mannosidases IA, IB, and IC that trim Man(9)GlcNAc(2) to Man(5)GlcNAc(2) via Man(8)GlcNAc(2) isomers A and C. The structure of the catalytic domain of the subgroup 2 alpha1,2-mannosidase from Penicillium citrinum has been determined by molecular replacement at 2.2-A resolution. The fungal alpha1,2-mannosidase is an (alphaalpha)(7)-helix barrel, very similar to the subgroup 1 yeast (Vallée, F., Lipari, F., Yip, P., Sleno, B., Herscovics, A., and Howell, P. L. (2000) EMBO J. 19, 581-588) and human (Vallée, F., Karaveg, K., Herscovics, A., Moremen, K. W., and Howell, P. L. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 41287-41298) ER enzymes. The location of the conserved acidic residues of the catalytic site and the binding of the inhibitors, kifunensine and 1-deoxymannojirimycin, to the essential calcium ion are conserved in the fungal enzyme. However, there are major structural differences in the oligosaccharide binding site between the two alpha1,2-mannosidase subgroups. In the subgroup 1 enzymes, an arginine residue plays a critical role in stabilizing the oligosaccharide substrate. In the fungal alpha1,2-mannosidase this arginine is replaced by glycine. This replacement and other sequence variations result in a more spacious carbohydrate binding site. Modeling studies of interactions between the yeast, human and fungal enzymes with different Man(8)GlcNAc(2) isomers indicate that there is a greater degree of freedom to bind the oligosaccharide in the active site of the fungal enzyme than in the yeast and human ER alpha1,2-mannosidases. 
21887271	20110903	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013486 	Novel cellulose-binding-domain protein in Phytophthora is cell wall localized.	Cellulose binding domains (CBD) in the carbohydrate binding module family 1 (CBM1) are structurally conserved regions generally linked to catalytic regions of cellulolytic enzymes. While widespread amongst saprophytic fungi that subsist on plant cell wall polysaccharides, they are absent amongst most plant pathogenic fungal cellulases. A genome wide survey for CBM1 was performed on the highly destructive plant pathogen Phytophthora infestans, a fungal-like Stramenopile, to determine if it harbored cellulolytic enzymes with CBM1. Only five genes were found to encode CBM1, and none were associated with catalytic domains. Surveys of other genomes indicated that the CBM1-containing proteins, lacking other domains, represent a unique group of proteins largely confined to the Stramenopiles. Immunolocalization of one of these proteins, CBD1, indicated that it is embedded in the hyphal cell wall. Proteins with CBM1 domains can have plant host elicitor activity, but tests with Agrobacterium-mediated in planta expression and synthetic peptide infiltration failed to identify plant hypersensitive elicitation with CBD1. A structural basis for differential elicitor activity is proposed. 
21981827	20111011	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	The Aspergillus niger multicopper oxidase family: analysis and overexpression of laccase-like encoding genes.	Many filamentous fungal genomes contain complex groups of multicopper oxidase (MCO) coding genes that makes them a good source for new laccases with potential biotechnological interest. A bioinformatics analysis of the Aspergillus niger ATCC 1015 genome resulted in the identification of thirteen MCO genes. Ten of them were cloned and homologously overexpressed. A bioinformatic analysis of the A. niger ATCC 1015 genome revealed the presence of 13 MCO genes belonging to three different subfamilies on the basis of their phylogenetic relationships: ascomycete laccases, fungal pigment MCOs and fungal ferroxidases. According to in silico amino acid sequence analysis, the putative genes encoding for functional extracellular laccases (mcoA, mcoB, mcoC, mcoD, mcoE, mcoF, mcoG, mcoI, mcoJ and mcoM) were placed under the control of the glaA promoter and overexpressed in A. niger N593. Enzyme activity plate assays with several common laccase substrates showed that all genes are actually expressed and code for active MCOs. Interestingly, expressed enzymes show different substrate specificities. In addition, optimization of fungal pigment MCOs extracellular production was investigated. The performance of the widely used glucoamylase signal sequence (ssGlaA) in McoA secretion was studied. Results obtained suggest that ssGlaA do not yield higher levels of secreted McoA when compared to its native secretion signal. Also, McoB synthesis was investigated using different nitrogen sources in minimal medium liquid cultures. Higher yields of extracellular McoB were achieved with (NH4)2 tartrate. Aspergillus niger is a good source of new laccases. The different substrate specificity observed in plate assays makes them interesting to be purified and biochemically compared. The homologous signal sequence of McoA has been shown to be a good choice for its extracellular overexpression. From the nitrogen sources tested (NH4)2 tartrate has been found to be the most appropriate for McoB production in A. niger. 
18723026	20080830	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013486 	The first structure of a glycoside hydrolase family 61 member, Cel61B from Hypocrea jecorina, at 1.6 A resolution.	The glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 61 is a long-recognized, but still recondite, class of proteins, with little known about the activity, mechanism or function of its more than 70 members. The best-studied GH family 61 member, Cel61A of the filamentous fungus Hypocrea jecorina, is known to be an endoglucanase, but it is not clear if this represents the main activity or function of this family in vivo. We present here the first structure for this family, that of Cel61B from H. jecorina. The best-quality crystals were formed in the presence of nickel, and the crystal structure was solved to 1.6 A resolution using a single-wavelength anomalous dispersion method with nickel as the source of anomalous scatter. Cel61B lacks a carbohydrate-binding module and is a single-domain protein that folds into a twisted beta-sandwich. A structure-aided sequence alignment of all GH family 61 proteins identified a highly conserved group of residues on the surface of Cel61B. Within this patch of mostly polar amino acids was a site occupied by the intramolecular nickel hexacoordinately bound in the solved structure. In the Cel61B structure, there is no easily identifiable carbohydrate-binding cleft or pocket or catalytic center of the types normally seen in GHs. A structural comparison search showed that the known structure most similar to Cel61B is that of CBP21 from the Gram-negative soil bacterium Serratia marcescens, a member of the carbohydrate-binding module family 33 proteins. A polar surface patch highly conserved in that structural family has been identified in CBP21 and shown to be involved in chitin binding and in the protein's enhancement of chitinase activities. The analysis of the Cel61B structure is discussed in light of our continuing research to better understand the activities and function of GH family 61. 
16535278	19960301	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Characterization and Ultrastructural Localization of Chitinases from Metarhizium anisopliae, M. flavoviride, and Beauveria bassiana during Fungal Invasion of Host (Manduca sexta) Cuticle.	Extracellular chitinases have been suggested to be virulence factors in fungal entomopathogenicity. We employed isoelectric focusing and a set of three fluorescent substrates to investigate the numbers and types of chitinolytic enzymes produced by the entomopathogenic fungi Metarhizium anisopliae, Metarhizium flavoviride, and Beauveria bassiana. Each species produced a variety of N-acetyl-(beta)-d-glucosaminidases and endochitinases during growth in media containing insect cuticle. M. flavoviride also produced 1,4-(beta)-chitobiosidases. The endochitinases could be divided according to whether they had basic or acidic isoelectric points. In contrast to those of the other two species, the predominant endochitinases of M. anisopliae were acidic, with isoelectric points of about 4.8. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis resolved the acidic chitinases of M. anisopliae into two major bands (43.5 and 45 kDa) with identical N-terminal sequences (AGGYVNAVYFY TNGLYLSNYQPA) similar to an endochitinase from the mycoparasite Trichoderma harzianum. Use of polyclonal antibodies to the 45-kDa isoform and ultrastructural immunocytochemistry enabled us to visualize chitinase production during penetration of the host (Manduca sexta) cuticle. Chitinase was produced at very low levels by infection structures on the cuticle surface and during the initial penetration of the cuticle, but much greater levels of chitinase accumulated in zones of proteolytic degradation, which suggests that the release of the chitinase is dependent on the accessibility of its substrate. 
3932329	19851101	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Control of STA1 gene expression by the mating-type locus in yeasts.	Extracellular production of glucoamylase from the yeast Saccharomyces diastaticus carrying an STA1 gene (a structural gene for the enzyme) is repressed by the mating-type constitution a/alpha. We obtained mutants that were relieved from the mating-type control of the STA1 gene expression. Tetrad analysis showed that the mutation was closely linked to MATa. The mutation was complemented by a MATa2 gene; hence, it was designated mata2. Northern blot analysis revealed that the MATa2-mediated repression occurs at the posttranscriptional level. 
12626396	20030311	Glycobiology	D016428 D016454 	New insights on trehalose: a multifunctional molecule.	Trehalose is a nonreducing disaccharide in which the two glucose units are linked in an alpha,alpha-1,1-glycosidic linkage. This sugar is present in a wide variety of organisms, including bacteria, yeast, fungi, insects, invertebrates, and lower and higher plants, where it may serve as a source of energy and carbon. In yeast and plants, it may also serve as a signaling molecule to direct or control certain metabolic pathways or even to affect growth. In addition, it has been shown that trehalose can protect proteins and cellular membranes from inactivation or denaturation caused by a variety of stress conditions, including desiccation, dehydration, heat, cold, and oxidation. Finally, in mycobacteria and corynebacteria, trehalose is an integral component of various glycolipids that are important cell wall structures. There are now at least three different pathways described for the biosynthesis of trehalose. The best known and most widely distributed pathway involves the transfer of glucose from UDP-glucose (or GDP-glucose in some cases) to glucose 6-phosphate to form trehalose-6-phosphate and UDP. This reaction is catalyzed by the trehalose-P synthase (TPS here, or OtsA in Escherichia coli ). Organisms that use this pathway usually also have a trehalose-P phosphatase (TPP here, or OtsB in E. coli) that converts the trehalose-P to free trehalose. A second pathway that has been reported in a few unusual bacteria involves the intramolecular rearrangement of maltose (glucosyl-alpha1,4-glucopyranoside) to convert the 1,4-linkage to the 1,1-bond of trehalose. This reaction is catalyzed by the enzyme called trehalose synthase and gives rise to free trehalose as the initial product. A third pathway involves several different enzymes, the first of which rearranges the glucose at the reducing end of a glycogen chain to convert the alpha1,4-linkage to an alpha,alpha1,1-bond. A second enzyme then releases the trehalose disaccharide from the reducing end of the glycogen molecule. Finally, in mushrooms there is a trehalose phosphorylase that catalyzes the phosphorolysis of trehalose to produce glucose-1-phosphate and glucose. This reaction is reversible in vitro and could theoretically give rise to trehalose from glucose-1-P and glucose. Another important enzyme in trehalose metabolism is trehalase (T), which may be involved in energy metabolism and also have a regulatory role in controlling the levels of trehalose in cells. This enzyme may be important in lowering trehalose concentrations once the stress is alleviated. Recent studies in yeast indicate that the enzymes involved in trehalose synthesis (TPS, TPP) exist together in a complex that is highly regulated at the activity level as well as at the genetic level. 
23558346	20130406	J._Mol._Evol.	D016428 	New paralogues and revised time line in the expansion of the vertebrate GH18 family.	Chitinase enzymes hydrolyse the polysaccharide chitin, an abundant architectural component in invertebrates and fungi. Most mammals encode at least two endochitinases (CHIT1 and CHIA/AMCase), as well as several homologues encoding catalytically inactive chitinase-like proteins or chilectins (all GH18 family proteins). It is becoming increasingly apparent that chitinases and chilectins play an important role in inflammation and their over-expression is correlated with numerous pathological conditions. We have conducted a detailed phylogenomic study of this gene family in order to understand its evolutionary history and the selection forces at work. The family has undergone extensive expansion, initiating with a duplication event at the root of the vertebrate tree generating the ancestors of CHIT1 and CHIA. Our analyses indicate that two further duplications of ancestral CHIA predate the divergence of bony fishes, one leading to a newly identified paralogous group (we have termed CHIO). In fish these sequences fall into two clades bearing the hallmarks of the teleost-specific genome duplication (referred to as 3R). In tetrapods, additional duplications predate and postdate the amphibian/mammalian split and relics of some exist as pseudogenes in the human genome. Expansion and selection of chilectins is pronounced in mammals and CHI3L1 (with a proposed function in immunity) is found in most mammals but not other vertebrates, while CHI3L2 is also evident in reptiles. Notably oviductin (OVGP1) became basic and gained a glycosylated tail with its evolving role in the mammalian reproductive system. In each case, retention of the sugar-binding barrel structure has constrained positive selection to limited sites. 
24258791	20131122	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	In vitro and in vivo characterization of plant growth promoting Bacillus strains isolated from extreme environments of Eastern Algeria.	This report is to our knowledge the first to study plant growth promotion and biocontrol characteristics of Bacillus isolates from extreme environments of Eastern Algeria. Seven isolates of 14 (50 %) were screened for their ability to inhibit growth of some phytopathogenic fungi on PDA and some roots exudates. The bacteria identification based on 16S r-RNA and gyrase-A gene sequence analysis showed that 71 % of the screened isolates belonged to Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and the rest were closely related to B. atrophaeus and B. mojavensis. Most of them had high spore yields (22 × 10(8)-27 × 10(8) spores/ml). They produced protease and cellulase cell wall-degrading enzymes while the chitinase activity was only observed in the B. atrophaeus (6SEL). A wide variety of lipopeptides homologous was detected by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry analysis. Interestingly, some additional peaks with new masses were characterized, which may correspond to new fengycin classes. The isolates produced siderophores and indole-3- acetic acid phytohormone. The greenhouse experiment using a naturally infested soil with Sclerotonia sclerotiorum showed that the B. atrophaeus (6SEL) significantly increased the size of the chickpea plants and reduced the stem rot disease (P < 0.05). These results suggest that these isolates may be used further as bio-inoculants to improve crop systems. 
12462992	20021205	Biol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	The expression of extracellular fungal cell wall hydrolytic enzymes in different Trichoderma harzianum isolates correlates with their ability to control Pyrenochaeta lycopersici.	Four isolates of Trichoderma harzianum (ThN3, Th11, Th12 and Th16) were selected for their ability to control the in vitro development of the tomato root pathogen Pyrenochaeta lycopersici. Analysis of the mechanisms involved in biocontrol showed that the formation of non-volatile metabolites appears to be one of those involved in biocontrol of P. lycopersici by all T. harzianum isolates tested. Nevertheless, the higher secretion of chitinases, both in number of isoenzymes and activity by the Th11 strain, correlated well with its higher ability to control this agent in laboratory and greenhouse experiments as compared to the other T. harzianum isolates tested. The secretion of beta-1,3-endoglucanases and/or proteases appeared to have less significance than endochitinases in the biological control of P. lycopersici. 
6419730	19831201	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Cellobiohydrolase from Trichoderma reesei.	A 1,4-beta-D-glucan cellobiohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.91) was purified from the culture liquid of Trichoderma reesei by using biospecific sorption on amorphous cellulose and immunoaffinity chromatography. A single protein band in polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis and one arc in immunoelectrophoresis corresponded to the enzyme activity. The Mr was 65 000. The pI was 4.2-3.6. The purified enzyme contained about 10% hexose. The enzyme differs from previously described cellobiohydrolases in being more effective in the hydrolysis of cellulose. 
4270443	19731001	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Induction of beta-glucosidases in Neurospora crassa.	The induction of beta-glucosidases (EC 3.2.1.21) was studied in Neurospora crassa. Cellobiase was induced by cellobiose, but other inducers had little effect on this enzyme. Cellobiase activity was very low in all stages of the vegetative life cycle in the absence of di-beta-glucoside inducer. Aryl-beta-glucosidase was semiconstitutive at late stages of culture growth prior to conidiation. At early stages, aryl-beta-glucosidase was induced by cellobiose, laminaribiose, and gentiobiose, and weakly induced by galactose, amino sugars, and aryl-beta-glucosides. The induction properties of the beta-glucosidases are compared with those of the other disaccharidases of Neurospora. The induction of beta-glucosidases was inhibited by glucose, 2-deoxy-d-glucose, and sodium acetate. Sodium phosphate concentrations between 0.01 and 0.1 M stimulated induction of both enzymes, while concentrations above 0.1 M were inhibitory. The optimal condition for induction of both beta-glucosidases was pH 6.0. Cellobiase induction was relatively more inhibited than aryl-beta-glucosidase in the range of pH 6.0 to 8.0. 
19824618	20091015	J._Nat._Prod.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Aspergillusol A, an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor from the marine-derived fungus Aspergillus aculeatus.	A new tyrosine-derived metabolite, aspergillusol A (4), was isolated on a gram scale, together with a methyl ester of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid oxime (5) and secalonic acid A, from the marine-derived fungus Aspergillus aculeatus CRI323-04. The tetraol in 4 was identified as erythritol by comparison of the 1H NMR spectrum of its benzoylated derivative with those of benzoylated erythritol (7) and D-threitol (8), as well as by cellulose-based chiral HPLC analysis. Aspergillusol A (4) selectively inhibited alpha-glucosidase from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, but it was inactive toward the alpha-glucosidase from the bacterium Bacillus stearothermophilus. 
22649505	20120601	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013486 	A thermophilic ionic liquid-tolerant cellulase cocktail for the production of cellulosic biofuels.	Generation of biofuels from sugars in lignocellulosic biomass is a promising alternative to liquid fossil fuels, but efficient and inexpensive bioprocessing configurations must be developed to make this technology commercially viable. One of the major barriers to commercialization is the recalcitrance of plant cell wall polysaccharides to enzymatic hydrolysis. Biomass pretreatment with ionic liquids (ILs) enables efficient saccharification of biomass, but residual ILs inhibit both saccharification and microbial fuel production, requiring extensive washing after IL pretreatment. Pretreatment itself can also produce biomass-derived inhibitory compounds that reduce microbial fuel production. Therefore, there are multiple points in the process from biomass to biofuel production that must be interrogated and optimized to maximize fuel production. Here, we report the development of an IL-tolerant cellulase cocktail by combining thermophilic bacterial glycoside hydrolases produced by a mixed consortia with recombinant glycoside hydrolases. This enzymatic cocktail saccharifies IL-pretreated biomass at higher temperatures and in the presence of much higher IL concentrations than commercial fungal cocktails. Sugars obtained from saccharification of IL-pretreated switchgrass using this cocktail can be converted into biodiesel (fatty acid ethyl-esters or FAEEs) by a metabolically engineered strain of E. coli. During these studies, we found that this biodiesel-producing E. coli strain was sensitive to ILs and inhibitors released by saccharification. This cocktail will enable the development of novel biomass to biofuel bioprocessing configurations that may overcome some of the barriers to production of inexpensive cellulosic biofuels. 
17333092	20070303	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Effect of the cellulose-binding domain on the catalytic activity of a beta-glucosidase from Saccharomycopsis fibuligera.	Enzyme engineering was performed to link the beta-glucosidase enzyme (BGL1) from Saccharomycopsis fibuligera to the cellulose-binding domain (CBD2) of Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase (CBHII) to investigate the effect of a fungal CBD on the enzymatic characteristics of this non-cellulolytic yeast enzyme. Recombinant enzymes were constructed with single and double copies of CBD2 fused at the N-terminus of BGL1 to mimic the two-domain organization displayed by cellulolytic enzymes in nature. The engineered S. fibuligera beta-glucosidases were expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae under the control of phosphoglycerate-kinase-1 promoter (PGK1 ( P )) and terminator (PGK1 ( T )) and yeast mating pheromone alpha-factor secretion signal (MFalpha1 ( S )). The secreted enzymes were purified and characterized using a range of cellulosic and non-cellulosic substrates to illustrate the effect of the CBD on their enzymatic activity. The results indicated that the recombinant enzymes of BGL1 displayed a 2-4-fold increase in their hydrolytic activity toward cellulosic substrates like avicel, amorphous cellulose, bacterial microcrystalline cellulose, and carboxy methyl cellulose in comparison with the native enzyme. The organization of the CBD in these recombinant enzymes also resulted in enhanced substrate affinity, molecular flexibility and synergistic activity, thereby improving the ability of the enzymes to act on and hydrolyze cellulosic substrates, as characterized by adsorption, kinetics, thermal stability, and scanning electron microscopic analyses. 
20455430	20100512	Mikrobiol._Z.	D003160 D016428 	[Cellulase activity of Ceratocystis sp. of different trophic groups].	A comparative analysis of cellulase activity of 36 fungal strains of phytopathogenic and endophytic Ceratocystis sp. was conducted. The rate of their linear growth on the media with carboxymethylcellulose was studied. It was shown that the rate of linear growth of phytopathogenic strains on the media with carboxymethylcellulose was lower than that in endophytic ones. There was no correlation between the levels of cellulase activity of studied strains and rates of their linear growth. The majority of Ceratocystis sp. strains had middle but not high cellulase activity, cellulase activity varied in the group of endophytic strains more than in the phytopathogenic one. The differences in cellulase activity were observed on the strain level. No distinct dependence of cellulase activity on different growth terms of fungi was demonstrated. The distinct dependence of cellulase activity level of endophytes on the species and organs of host plant was not observed. The cellulase activity level of endophytic strains Ceratocystis sp. was lower than in endophytic Fusarium poae strains and similar to it in phytopathogenic Fusarium strains. Consequently the investigated endophytic Ceratocystis sp. strains can be classified as latent pathogens, which were able to cause the diseases of host plants in favorable for them conditions. The paper is presented in Ukrainian. 
1648007	19910515	Gene	D016428 	Mutations of the alpha-galactosidase signal peptide which greatly enhance secretion of heterologous proteins by yeast.	The Saccharomyces carlsbergensis MEL1 gene encodes alpha-galactosidase (melibiase; MEL1) which is readily secreted by yeast cells into the culture medium. To evaluate the utility of the MEL1 signal peptide (sp) for the secretion of heterologous proteins by Saccharomyces cerevisiae, an expression vector was constructed which contains the MEL1 promoter and MEL1 sp coding sequence (MEL1sp). The coding sequences for echistatin (Echis) and human plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) were inserted in-frame with the MEL1sp. S. cerevisiae transformants containing the resulting expression vectors secreted negligible amounts of either Echis or PAI-1. Using site-directed mutagenesis, several mutations were introduced into the MEL1sp. Two mutations were identified which dramatically increased the secretion of both Echis and PAI-1 to levels similar to those achieved when using the yeast MF alpha 1 pre-pro secretory leader. In particular, increasing the hydrophobicity of the core region plus the addition of a positive charge to the N-terminal domain of the MEL1 sp resulted in the greatest increase in the secretion levels of those two proteins. 
14600224	20031106	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	In situ localization of manganese peroxidase production in mycelial pellets of Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	The ultrastructure of Phanerochaete chrysosporium hyphae from pellets in submerged liquid cultures was investigated in order to learn more about the interrelation between fungal architecture and manganese peroxidase (MnP) production. At day 2 of cultivation, some subapical regions of hyphae in the outer and middle zones of the pellet initiated differentiation into intercalary thick-walled chlamydospore-like cells of about 10 micro m diameter. At the periphery of the cytoplasm of these cells, a large number of mitochondria and Golgi-like vesicles were observed. The sites of MnP production were localized at different stages of cultivation by an immunolabelling procedure. The immunomarker of MnP was mainly concentrated in the chlamydospore-like cells and principally distributed in Golgi-like vesicles located at the periphery of the cytoplasm. The apices of hyphae in the outer layer of the pellets were apparently minor sites of MnP production. Maximal MnP release into the culture supernatant coincided with apparent autolysis of the chlamydospore-like cells. Production of extracellular autolytic chitinase and protease coincided with the disappearance of these structures from the pellets. The chlamydospore-like cells observed in the mycelial pellets of P. chrysosporium could be metabolically active entities operating as an enzyme reservoir, delivering their content into the surrounding medium possibly by an enzyme-mediated autolytic process. 
10455498	19990824	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production, purification and characterization of a constitutive intracellular alpha-galactosidase from the thermophilic fungus Humicola sp.	The thermophilic fungus Humicola sp constitutively produces intracellular alpha-galactosidase (1.33 U mg-1 protein) within 48 h at 45 degrees C in shaken flasks, when grown in a medium containing 7% wheat bran extract as a carbon source and 0.5% yeast extract as a nitrogen source. The enzyme has been purified to homogeneity by ultrafiltration, ethanol precipitation, DEAE cellulose and Sephacryl S-300 chromatography with a 124-fold increase in specific activity and 29.5% recovery. The molecular weight of the enzyme is 371.5 kDa by gel filtration on Sephacryl S-300 and 87.1 kDa by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The enzyme has an optimum temperature of 65 degrees C and an optimum pH of 5.0. Humicola alpha-galactosidase is a glycoprotein with 8.3% carbohydrate content and is acidic in nature with a pI of 4.0. The KmS for p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside, O-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside, raffinose and stachyose are 0.279, 0.40, 1.45 and 1.42 mM respectively. The enzyme activity was strongly inhibited by Ag+ and Hg2+. D-Galactose inhibited alpha-galactosidase competitively and the inhibition constant (Ki) for galactose was 11 mM. 
22405896	20120313	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular phylogeny and species delimitation in the section Longibrachiatum of Trichoderma.	The phylogenetically most derived group of the genus Trichoderma - section Longibrachiatum, includes some of the most intensively studied species, such as the industrial cellulase producer T. reesei (teleomorph Hypocrea jecorina), or the facultative opportunistic human pathogens T. longibrachiatum and H. orientalis. At the same time, the phylogeny of this clade is only poorly understood. Here we used a collection of 112 strains representing all currently recognized species and isolates that were tentatively identified as members of the group, to analyze species diversity and molecular evolution. Bayesian phylogenetic analyses based on several unlinked loci in individual and concatenated datasets confirmed 13 previously described species and 3 previously recognized phylogenetic species all of which were not yet described formally. When the genealogical concordance criterion, the K/θ method and comparison of frequencies of pairwise nucleotide differences were applied to the data sample, 10 additional new phylogenetic species were recognized, seven of which consisted only of a single lineage. Our analysis thus identifies 26 putative species in section Longibrachiatum, what doubles the currently estimated taxonomic diversity of the group, and illustrates the power of combining genealogical concordance and population genetic analysis for dissecting species in a recently diverged group of fungal species. 
40530	19790101	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 	Beta-1-3-glucanase and dimorphism in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.	Mycelial and yeast forms of P. brasiliensis were tested for several glucohydrolases. In addition to high levels of beta-glucanases, low amounts of alpha-glucanase, chitinase and maltase were found. Tests for invertase, amylase and lactase were negative. The levels of beta-1,3-glucanase were higher in the mycelial form. The shift to the mycelial phase correlated with an increase in the levels of beta-1,3-glucanase. The enzyme was present in the cytoplasm, cell wall and culture medium. The extracellular enzyme was purified 42 fold by ammonium sulphate precipitation and gel filtration. Maximal activity was obtained at 60 degrees C and pH of 5.0 (acetate buffer or pH 6.0 (phosphate buffer). Its Km was 0.205 mg/ml. The cell wall-bound enzyme showed a higher temperature optimum. Optimum pH and Km were also slightly different. Following treatment of the cell walls with chitinase, beta-1,3-glucanase was released into the medium. 
14730410	20040120	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Arabinoxylan and mono- and dimeric ferulic acid release from brewer's grain and wheat bran by feruloyl esterases and glycosyl hydrolases from Humicola insolens.	An enzyme preparation from the thermophilic fungus Humicola insolens, Ultraflo L, was able to solubilise more than half of the biomass of brewer's grain and wheat bran, two agro-industrial co-products. While almost all of the ferulic acid was released in the free form, the majority of diferulates were released still attached to soluble feruloylated oligosaccharides, except for the 8,5' benzofuran form, which remained mostly in the residue. H. insolens also produced an esterase capable of releasing over 50% of p-coumaric acid present in wheat bran, but only 9% from the brewer's grain. The polysaccharide content in the residues after enzyme treatment comprised mostly cellulose and arabinoxylan, which suggests that part of the arabinoxylan in these residues is inaccessible to the xylanases of H. insolens. Differences in the solubilised arabinose-to-xylose ratio coupled to high free ferulate release suggest that the structure of feruloylated arabinoxylan in barley and wheat may differ. 
17273823	20070203	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Testing the efficacy of RNA interference constructs in Aspergillus fumigatus.	We recently developed a silencing vector in Aspergillus fumigatus which carries a hygromycin resistance marker and a transcriptional unit for hairpin RNA expression under the control of the inducible glucoamylase promoter (pGla) (Mouyna et al. in FEMS Microbiol Lett 237:317-324, 2004). We showed previously that this vector can be used for the RNA interference application of two genes ALB1 and FKS1 of which reduced mRNA levels occurred for both, with phenotypic consequences resembling disruptions of genes involved in melanin (ALB1) and beta(1-3)glucan biosynthesis (FKS1). We reported here the silencing of KRE6 and CRH1, two other genes putatively involved in cell wall biosynthesis using a similar construction under the control of the constitutive promoter glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (pgpdA). Silencing of the expression of these two genes was obtained. Further analysis of the transformants showed however that (1) a 100% loss of expression was never achieved for all genes tested (2) the vector used for RNAi is lost or modified over successive transfers resulting in an inhibition of the silencing. These disadvantages of RNAi indicate that classical gene disruption by gene replacement remains the most efficient method for a molecular analysis of gene function in A. fumigatus. 
15560140	20041125	BioTechniques	D003160 D023362 D016428 D023361 	"One plate/three-reporter" assay format for the detection and validation of yeast two-hybrid interactions.	We describe a novel assay format for the Gal4-based yeast two-hybrid-system, in which the readout from three different reporter genes is measured sequentially in a single microplate. Activation of the URA3, MEL1, and lacZ reporters in response to a protein-protein interaction is monitored by measuring sequentially: (i) growth in medium lacking uracil, (ii) alpha-galactosidase activity, and (iii) beta-galactosidase. The data thus generated permit elimination of many false positive signals and provide a preliminary measurement of reporter activation-strength that may be confirmed by further analysis. The assay procedure is inexpensive and requires few liquid-handling steps. It is appropriate for automated high-throughput interaction mating assays, validation of putative interactor strains and hybrid-protein self-activator tests. 
12740713	20030513	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	A semi-quantitative RT-PCR method to readily compare expression levels within Botrytis cinerea multigenic families in vitro and in planta.	A straightforward and easy-to-apply semi-quantitative RT-PCR method was developed to study multigenic expression in the phytopathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea. This procedure is based on the one-step reverse transcription-amplification of a specific transcript within total RNA and product amount determination by densitometric analysis of ethidium bromide fluorescence upon gel electrophoresis. The semi-quantitative analysis is achieved, at a fixed PCR cycle-number, within a range of total RNA concentrations that stays in the exponential phase of the PCR. Co-amplification of the transcript of interest with internal controls allowed comparison between different RNA samples. Using this method, we could demonstrate a differential regulation of chitin synthase genes during fungal growth and an effect of the culture carbon source on the expression of two pectin methylesterase genes in B. cinerea. Finally, the method was shown to be applicable to plant-infected tissue, making it a useful tool to detect pathogenicity genes in B. cinerea. 
23895662	20130731	J._Insect_Sci.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Character of cellulase activity in the guts of flagellate-free termites with different feeding habits.	Cellulose digestion in termites (Isoptera) is highly important for ecological reasons and applications in biofuel conversion. The speciose Termitidae family has lost flagellates in the hindgut and developed diverse feeding habits. To address the response of cellulase activity to the differentiation of feeding habits, a comparative study of the activity and distribution of composite cellulases, endo-β-1,4-glucanase, and β-glucosidase was performed in seven common flagellate-free termites with three feeding habits: the humus-feeding termites Sinocapritermes mushae (Oshima et Maki), Malaysiocapritermes zhangfengensis Zhu, Yang et Huang and Pericapritermes jiangtsekiangensis (Kemner); the fungus-growing termites Macrotermes barneyi Light and Odontotermes formosanus (Shiraki); and the wood-feeding termites Nasutitermes parvonasutus (Shiraki) and Havilanditermes orthonasus (Tsai et Chen). The results showed that in diverse feeding groups, the wood-feeding group had the highest total composite cellulase and endo-β-1,4-glucanase activities, while the fungus-growing group had the highest β-glucosidase activity. In terms of the distribution of cellulase activity in the alimentary canals, the cellulase activities in wood-feeding termites were concentrated in the midgut, but there was no significant difference between all gut segments in humus-feeding termites. As for the fungus-growing termites, the main site of composite cellulase activity was in the midgut. The endo-β-1,4-glucanase activity was restricted to the midgut, but the primary site of β-glucosidase activity was in the foregut and the midgut (Mac. barneyi). The functions of the gut segments apparently differentiated between feeding groups. The results suggest that the differentiation of feeding habits in flagellate-free termites was characterized by the distribution of cellulases in the gut rather than by variations in cellulase activity. 
1156365	19750201	Biochem._J.	D016428 	The subunit structure of beta-glucosidase from Botryodiplodia theobromae Pat.	1. A homologous series of beta-glcosidase (beta-D-glcoside glcohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.21), which varied in relative amounts in different preparations from cultures of similar and different age, was observed in cultures od Botryodiplodia theobromae Pat grown for 4-8 week on cotton flock (cellulose) as carbon source. 2. Aging of the purified high-molecular-weight species led to some amount of siddociation into a homolous series of lower-molecular-weight speices. 3. Rough molecular-weight estimates, by gel filtration, of the various species derived from the purifeid high-molecular-weight enzyme were 350000-3800000, 170000, 180000, 83000-87000 and 45000-47000. 4. Electron micrographs of the negatively stained 350000-380000-molecular-weight enzyme showed that the molecule is an octamer in which each roughly spherical monomer occupies a corner of a cube with each side about 7.14nm long. 5. Carboxamidomethylation of the reduced form of each molecular-weight species of the enzyme led to irreversible dissociation of the molecules into electrophoretically identical polypeptides with a moleclar weight of 10000-12000. 6. These results suggest a slow association-dissociation of the type (8n)in equilibrium 2 (4n) in equilibrium 4(2n) in equilibrium 8(n), where n is defined as the monomer. The monomer is in turn made up of four polypeptide a subunits whi-ch are non-catalytic. 7. The Michaelis constants (Km) and heat stability of the four wnzymically active molecular species derived from the purified enzyme increased with molecular complexity, whereas all four species were inhibited by glycerol (100nM)  at low concentrations of substrate (o-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside) but activated at high substrat concentrations. 8. Only the lowest-molecular-weight species (45species (45,000-47000 mol. wt.) showed substrate inhibition. 
22683794	20120612	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Two high-resolution structures of potato endo-1,3-β-glucanase reveal subdomain flexibility with implications for substrate binding.	Endo-1,3-β-glucanases are widely distributed among bacteria, fungi and higher plants. They are responsible for hydrolysis of the glycosidic bond in specific polysaccharides with tracts of unsubstituted β-1,3-linked glucosyl residues. The plant enzymes belong to glycoside hydrolase family 17 (GH17) and are also members of class 2 of pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins. X-ray diffraction data were collected to 1.40 and 1.26 Å resolution from two crystals of endo-1,3-β-glucanase from Solanum tuberosum (potato, cultivar Désirée) which, despite having a similar packing framework, represented two separate crystal forms. In particular, they differed in the Matthews coefficient and are consequently referred to as higher density (HD; 1.40 Å resolution) and lower density (LD; 1.26 Å resolution) forms. The general fold of the protein resembles that of other known plant endo-1,3-β-glucanases and is defined by a (β/α)(8)-barrel with an additional subdomain built around the C-terminal half of the barrel. The structures revealed high flexibility of the subdomain, which forms part of the catalytic cleft. Comparison with structures of other GH17 endo-1,3-β-glucanases revealed differences in the arrangement of the secondary-structure elements in this region, which can be correlated with sequence variability and may suggest distinct substrate-binding patterns. The crystal structures revealed an unusual packing mode, clearly visible in the LD structure, caused by the presence of the C-terminal His(6) tag, which extends from the compact fold of the enzyme molecule and docks in the catalytic cleft of a neighbouring molecule. In this way, an infinite chain of His-tag-linked protein molecules is formed along the c direction. 
19751697	20090916	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 D016427 	Plate assay for fungal enzymes using cellophane membranes.	Fungal mycelia mass and pigments are major obstacles to investigating the secretion of bioactive substances such as enzyme activities using a plate assay. In this study, we applied a cellophane membrane and demonstrated that it can block mycelia mass and conidia (especially pigmented spores that would likely interfere with any subsequent color development-based activity detection) while allowing secreting enzymes to pass through. Visual observation after lifting the cellophane membrane and the collected mycelia and conidia indicated that the bioactivities on specific plates were improved significantly, although some fungal growth hurdle was noted. This proved to be true whether the assays were color development based or not. 
14570264	20031023	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 	Chitinase-mediated inhibitory activity of Brassica transgenic on growth of Alternaria brassicae.	Chitinase, capable of degrading the cell walls of invading phytopathogenic fungi, plays an important role in plant defense response, particularly when this enzyme is overexpressed through genetic engineering. In the present study, Brassica plant (Brassica juncea L.) was transformed with chitinase gene tagged with an overexpressing promoter 35 S CaMV. The putative transgenics were assayed for their inhibitory activity against Alternaria brassicae, the inducer of Alternaria leaf spot of Brassica both in vitro and under polyhouse conditions. In in vitro fungal growth inhibition assays, chitinase inhibited the fungal colony size by 12-56% over the non-trangenic control. The bioassay under artificial epiphytotic conditions revealed the delay in the onset of disease as well as reduced lesion number and size in 35S-chitinase Brassica as compared to the untransformed control plants. 
18636522	19970805	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Production of recombinant bacterial endoglucanase as a co-product with ethanol during fermentation using derivatives of Escherichia coli KO11.	This study demonstrates a new approach to reduce the amount of fungal cellulase required for the conversion of cellulose into ethanol. Escherichia coli KO11, a biocatalyst developed for the fermentation of hemicellulose syrups, was used to produce recombinant endoglucanase as a co-product with ethanol. Seven different bacterial genes were expressed from plasmids in KO11. All produced cell-associated endoglucanase activity. KO11(pLOI1620) containing Erwinia chrysanthemi celZ (EGZ) produced the highest activity, 3,200 IU endoglucanase/L fermentation broth (assayed at pH 5.2 and 35 degrees C). Recombinant EGZ was solubilized from harvested cells by treatment with dilute sodium dodecyl sulfate (12.5 mg/ml, 10 min, 50 degrees C) and tested in fermentation experiments with commercial fungal cellulase (5 filter paper units/g cellulose) and purified cellulose (100 g/L). Using Klebsiella oxytoca P2 as the biocatalyst, fermentations supplemented with EGZ as a detergent-lysate of KO11(pLOI1620) produced 14%-24% more ethanol than control fermentations supplemented with a detergent-lysate of KO11(pUC18). These results demonstrate that recombinant bacterial endoglucanase can function with fungal cellulase to increase ethanol yield during the simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of cellulose. 
21168322	20101221	Curr._Opin._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013486 D016454 	Applications of computational science for understanding enzymatic deconstruction of cellulose.	Understanding the molecular-level mechanisms that enzymes employ to deconstruct plant cell walls is a fundamental scientific challenge with significant ramifications for renewable fuel production from biomass. In nature, bacteria and fungi use enzyme cocktails that include processive and non-processive cellulases and hemicellulases to convert cellulose and hemicellulose to soluble sugars. Catalyzed by an accelerated biofuels R&D portfolio, there is now a wealth of new structural and experimental insights related to cellulases and the structure of plant cell walls. From this background, computational approaches commonly used in other fields are now poised to offer insights complementary to experiments designed to probe mechanisms of plant cell wall deconstruction. Here we outline the current status of computational approaches for a collection of critical problems in cellulose deconstruction. We discuss path sampling methods to measure rates of elementary steps of enzyme action, coarse-grained modeling for understanding macromolecular, cellulosomal complexes, methods to screen for enzyme improvements, and studies of cellulose at the molecular level. Overall, simulation is a complementary tool to understand carbohydrate-active enzymes and plant cell walls, which will enable industrial processes for the production of advanced, renewable fuels. 
17627774	20070714	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Rsc14-controlled expression of MNN6, MNN4 and MNN1 regulates mannosylphosphorylation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell wall mannoproteins.	ybl006cDelta was selected using an Alcian-blue-based screen aimed to identify nonessential genes involved in the regulation of mannosylphosphorylation. When cells of this deletant were mixed with the cationic dye Alcian blue in a typical assay, they remained white, indicating a low number of mannosylphosphate groups on the cell surface. ybl006cDelta cells did not show any defect in growth rate nor in the glycosylation or secretion rate of the major exoglucanase Exg1. Transcriptome analysis of ybl006cDelta using macroarrays showed at least two-fold changes in the expression of 52 genes (<0.9% of the genome). Three of these have previously been reported to be directly (MNN6 and MNN4) or indirectly (MNN1) implicated in the transfer of mannosylphosphate to the N- and O-oligosaccharides. Alterations in the expression of these genes were confirmed by Northern analysis. YBL006C product was recently identified as a subunit (Rsc14) of the RSC chromatin-remodelling complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It follows that remodelling of chromatin can be an important regulatory mechanism for the maturation of cell wall mannoproteins. 
11272414	20010329	Indian_J._Exp._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparison of protein profiles and enzymes in non-mycorrhizal and mycorrhizal roots of Pennisetum pedicellatum.	Pennisetum pedicellatum plants were inoculated with Glomus mosseae, G. aggregatum and Gigaspora margarita. There were both quantitative and qualitative changes in the protein pattern of inoculated plants. Gi. margarita induced increase in protein in the plants. Acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase, superoxide dismutase and chitinase activities were high at the beginning of infection, but declined as the infection advanced. Gi. margarita was an efficient fungus in enhancing enzyme activity and proteins in roots compared with G. mosseae and G. aggregatum. Protein profile revealed the presence of 12 peaks in mycorrhizal plants compared with 8 in nonmycorrhizal plants. 
17823796	20070908	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification, characterization, and substrate specificity of a glucoamylase with steroidal saponin-rhamnosidase activity from Curvularia lunata.	It has been previously reported that a glucoamylase from Curvularia lunata is able to hydrolyze the terminal 1,2-linked rhamnosyl residues of sugar chains at C-3 position of steroidal saponins. In this work, the enzyme was isolated and identified after isolation and purification by column chromatography including gel filtration and ion-exchange chromatography. Analysis of protein fragments by MALDI-TOF/TOF proteomics Analyzer indicated the enzyme to be 1,4-alpha-D-glucan glucohydrolase EC 3.2.1.3, GA and had considerable homology with the glucoamylase from Aspergillus oryzae. We first found that the glucoamylase was produced from C. lunata and was able to hydrolyze the terminal rhamnosyl of steroidal saponins. The enzyme had the general character of glucoamylase, which hydrolyze starch. It had a molecular mass of 66 kDa and was optimally active at 50 degrees C, pH 4, and specific activity of 12.34 U mg of total protein(-1) under the conditions, using diosgenin-3-O-alpha-L-rhamnopyranosyl(1-->4)-[alpha-L-rhamnopyranosyl (1-->2)]-beta-D-glucopyranoside (compound II) as the substrate. Furthermore, four kinds of commercial glucoamylases from Aspergillus niger were investigated in this work, and they had the similar activity in hydrolyzing terminal rhamnosyl residues of steroidal saponin. 
10810146	20000516	Plant_Cell	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing a fungal cutinase show alterations in the structure and properties of the cuticle and postgenital organ fusions.	A major structural component of the cuticle of plants is cutin. Analysis of the function of cutin in vivo has been limited because no mutants with specific defects in cutin have been characterized. Therefore, transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated that express and secrete a cutinase from Fusarium solani f sp pisi. Arabidopsis plants expressing the cutinase in the extracellular space showed an altered ultrastructure of the cuticle and an enhanced permeability of the cuticle to solutes. In addition, pollen could germinate on fully differentiated leaves of cutinase-expressing plants but not on control leaves. These differences coincided with strong postgenital organ fusions. The junctions of the fusions contained pectic polysaccharides. As fused organs grew apart from each other, organ deformations and protrusions of epidermal cells developed at positions with high mechanical stress. These results demonstrate that an intact cutin layer not only is important for plant-environment interactions but also prevents fusions between different plant organs and is therefore necessary for normal epidermal differentiation and organ formation. 
23428818	20130223	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Chitinase A from Stenotrophomonas maltophilia shows transglycosylation and antifungal activities.	Stenotrophomonas maltophilia chitinase (StmChiA and StmChiB) genes were cloned and expressed as soluble proteins of 70.5 and 41.6 kDa in Escherichia coli. Ni-NTA affinity purified StmChiA and StmChiB were optimally active at pH 5.0 and 7.0, respectively and exhibited broad range pH activity. StmChiA and StmChiB had an optimum temperature of 40°C and are stable up to 50 and 40°C, respectively. Hydrolytic activity on chitooligosaccharides indicated that StmChiA was an endo-acting enzyme releasing chitobiose and StmChiB was both exo/endo-acting enzyme with the release of GlcNAc as the final product. StmChiA showed higher preference to β-chitin and exhibited transglycosylation on even chain length tetra- and hexameric substrates. StmChiA, and not StmChiB, was active on chitinous polymers and showed antifungal activity against Fusarium oxysporum. 
23332028	20130122	FEBS_J.	D016428 	The proteome of exudates from germinating Lupinus albus seeds is secreted through a selective dual-step process and contains proteins involved in plant defence.	The general knowledge of defence activity during the first steps of seed germination is still largely incomplete. The present study focused on the proteins released in the exudates of germinating white lupin seeds. During the first 24 h, a release of proteins was observed. Initially (i.e. during the first 12 h), the proteins found in exudates reflected the composition of the seed, indicating a passive extrusion of pre-formed proteins. Subsequently, when the rate of protein release was at its highest, the composition of the released proteome changed drastically. This transition occurred in a short time, indicating that more selective and regulated events, such as secretory processes, took place soon after the onset of germination. The present study considered: (a) the characterization of the proteome accumulated in the germinating medium collected after the appearance of the post-extrusion events; (b) the biosynthetic origin and the modalities that are the basis of protein release outside the seeds; and (c) an assessment of antifungal activity of these exudates. The most represented protein in the exudate was chitinase, which was synthesized de novo. The other proteins are involved in the cellular mechanisms responding to stress events, including biotic ones. This exudate was effectively able to inhibit fungal growth. The results of the present study indicate that seed exudation is a dual-step process that leads to the secretion of selected proteins and thus is not a result of passive leakage. The released proteome is involved in protecting the spermosphere environment and thus may act as first defence against pathogens. 
16272387	20051108	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Protein O-mannosyltransferase A of Aspergillus awamori is involved in O-mannosylation of glucoamylase I.	Industrially important extracellular enzymes from filamentous fungi are often O-mannosylated. The structure and function of the pmtA (AapmtA) gene encoding the protein O-D-mannosyltransferase of Aspergillus awamori were characterized. The AapmtA disruptant, designated AaPMTA, was constructed by homologous recombination. The strain AaPMTA exhibited fragile cell morphology with respect to hyphal extension, as well as swollen hyphae formation and conidia formation in potato dextrose medium. Moreover, the AapmtA disruptant showed increased sensitivity to high temperature and Congo red. Thus, the AaPmtA protein is involved in the formation of the normal cell wall. The strain AaPMTA could grow well in liquid synthetic medium and secrete glucoamylase I (GAI-AaPMTA) to a similar extent to the wild-type strain (GAI-WT). Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry analysis of the GAIs revealed that approximately 33 mannose moieties of GAI were absent in strain AaPMTA. This result indicates that the AaPmtA protein is responsible for the transfer of mannose to GAI. Structural analysis of the O-linked oligosaccharides of GAI also demonstrated that the AapmtA disruption resulted in a reduction of the amounts of O-linked oligosaccharides, such as D-mannose and alpha-1,2-mannotriose, in GAI-AaPMTA. However, the amount of alpha-1,2-mannobiose was comparable between GAI-WT and GAI-AaPMTA. The result suggests the presence of a compensatory mechanism in the synthetic pathway of O-mannosylation in A. awamori. 
19602150	20090716	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Dynamics of cell wall components of Magnaporthe grisea during infectious structure development.	Oligosaccharides derived from cell wall of fungal pathogens induce host primary immune responses. To understand fungal strategies circumventing the host plant immune responses, cell wall polysaccharide localization was investigated using fluorescent labels during infectious structure differentiation in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. alpha-1,3-glucan was labelled only on appressoria developing on plastic surfaces, whereas it was detected on both germ tubes and appressoria on plant surfaces. Chitin, chitosan and beta-1,3-glucan were detected on germ tubes and appressoria regardless of the substrate. Major polysaccharides labelled at accessible surface of infectious hyphae were alpha-1,3-glucan and chitosan, but after enzymatic digestion of alpha-1,3-glucan, beta-1,3-glucan and chitin became detectable. Immunoelectron microscopic analysis showed alpha-1,3-glucan and beta-1,3-glucan intermixed in the cell wall of infectious hyphae; however, alpha-1,3-glucan tended to be distributed farther from the fungal cell membrane. The fungal cell wall became more tolerant to chitinase digestion upon accumulation of alpha-1,3-glucan. Accumulation of alpha-1,3-glucan was dependent on the Mps1 MAP kinase pathway, which was activated by a plant wax derivative, 1,16-hexadecanediol. Taken together, alpha-1,3-glucan spatially and functionally masks beta-1,3-glucan and chitin in the cell wall of infectious hyphae. Thus, a dynamic change of composition of cell wall polysaccharides occurs during plant infection in M. grisea. 
9195758	19970425	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Improvement of expression and secretion of a fungal xylanase in the rumen bacterium Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens OB156 by manipulation of promoter and signal sequences.	Promoters and signal sequences for expression and secretion of a fungal xylanase encoded by a modified Neocallimastix patriciarum xynA cDNA in the rumen bacterium, Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens OB156, were investigated. Successful expression of the fungal xylanase in OB156 was obtained using the putative xylanase promoter from B. fibrisolvens strain 49. Replacing the putative -35 region sequence (TTGCAC) of the xylanase promoter with the sequence TTGACA by mutagenesis reduced the fungal xylanase expression level 4-fold in OB156, indicating that this B. fibrisolvens strain did not efficiently recognise the E. coli consensus -35 sequence. Reduction of the spacer length between the -35 and -10 regions of the xylanase promoter from 18 to 17 base-pairs (bp) considerably increased the expression levels of the fungal enzyme in both E. coli and OB156. Insertion of a pUB110 mob promoter upstream of the xylanase promoter also significantly improved the fungal xylanase expression. Secretion of the fungal xylanase mediated by the alpha-amylase signal peptide from B. fibrisolvens strain H17c was efficient in E. coli, but very poor in OB156. An increase in the hydrophobicity of the signal sequence resulted in a 4-fold increase in the extracellular portion of the fungal xylanase in OB156, indicating marked improvement in xylanase secretion efficiency. The recombinant plasmids and xylanase expression/secretion cassettes were found to be stable in OB156 after prolonged cultivation (100 generations) in the absence of antibiotic selection. These results suggest that the rumen bacterium B. fibrisolvens can be manipulated to produce and secrete a eukaryotic extracellular protein with stable maintenance of the expression cassette in plasmid form. 
12620261	20030307	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 	Characterization of 1,3-beta-glucanase and 1,3;1,4-beta-glucanase genes from Phytophthora infestans.	Three putative exo-1,3-beta-glucanase genes (Piexo1, Piexo2, Piexo3), one endo-1,3-beta-glucanase (Piendo1) and one endo-1,3;1,4-beta-glucanase (Piendo2) gene were cloned and characterized from the oomycete Phytophthora infestans. Southern hybridization revealed that Piexo1, Piexo2, Piexo3, and Piendo2 are single copy, and that Piendo1 is encoded by two copies. Furthermore, the analyses showed that for each gene, one or two closely related gene family members were present. The genes contain no introns. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the promoter regions (200nt upstream of ATG start codon) showed that the regions have 56-81% similarity to a 16-nt core sequence hypothesized to be the initiation of transcription point in oomycetes. The predicted molecular weights (32-83kDa), iso-electric points (4.2-6.7) and amino acid sequences of the five proteins are diverse. All the genes are expressed in in vitro grown mycelia and sporangia, as well as during infection of potatoes. Further, Piendo1 and Piendo2 are also expressed in germinating cysts, and Piendo2 in zoospores. 
21454590	20110402	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013486 	Probing carbohydrate product expulsion from a processive cellulase with multiple absolute binding free energy methods.	Understanding the enzymatic mechanism that cellulases employ to degrade cellulose is critical to efforts to efficiently utilize plant biomass as a sustainable energy resource. A key component of cellulase action on cellulose is product inhibition from monosaccharide and disaccharides in the product site of cellulase tunnel. The absolute binding free energy of cellobiose and glucose to the product site of the catalytic tunnel of the Family 7 cellobiohydrolase (Cel7A) of Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina) was calculated using two different approaches: steered molecular dynamics (SMD) simulations and alchemical free energy perturbation molecular dynamics (FEP/MD) simulations. For the SMD approach, three methods based on Jarzynski's equality were used to construct the potential of mean force from multiple pulling trajectories. The calculated binding free energies, -14.4 kcal/mol using SMD and -11.2 kcal/mol using FEP/MD, are in good qualitative agreement. Analysis of the SMD pulling trajectories suggests that several protein residues (Arg-251, Asp-259, Asp-262, Trp-376, and Tyr-381) play key roles in cellobiose and glucose binding to the catalytic tunnel. Five mutations (R251A, D259A, D262A, W376A, and Y381A) were made computationally to measure the changes in free energy during the product expulsion process. The absolute binding free energies of cellobiose to the catalytic tunnel of these five mutants are -13.1, -6.0, -11.5, -7.5, and -8.8 kcal/mol, respectively. The results demonstrated that all of the mutants tested can lower the binding free energy of cellobiose, which provides potential applications in engineering the enzyme to accelerate the product expulsion process and improve the efficiency of biomass conversion. 
9933966	19990206	Z._Naturforsch.,_C,_J._Biosci.	D016428 D013485 	Transgenic potato plants expressing soybean beta-1,3-endoglucanase gene exhibit an increased resistance to Phytophthora infestans.	Soybean beta-1,3-endoglucanase represents a model system for studies on early plant responses to infection by fungal pathogens, and it has been implicated in the release of elicitors from fungal cell walls. In the present study, potato plants were transformed with the soybean beta-1,3-endoglucanase cDNA via Agrobacterium delivery system. The transfer of the gene into potato genome was confirmed by (i) PCR amplification, (ii) Northern blot analyses, and (iii) an increase in the activity of beta-1,3-endoglucanase in transgenic plants. The transformation resulted in an increased resistance of selected transgenic plants to infection by Phytophthora infestans, an important pathogen. 
16904235	20060815	J._Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Xyloglucanases in the interaction between saprobe fungi and the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae.	We studied the production of xyloglucanase enzymes of pea and lettuce roots in the presence of saprobe and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. The AM fungus Glomus mosseae and the saprobe fungi Fusarium graminearum, Fusarium oxysporum-126, Trichoderma harzianum, Penicillium chrysogenum, Pleurotus ostreatus and Aspergillus niger were used. G. mosseae increased the shoot and root dry weight of pea but not of lettuce. Most of the saprobe fungi increased the level of mycorrhization of pea and lettuce, but only P. chrysogenum and T. harzianum inoculated together with G. mosseae increased the dry weight of pea and lettuce respectively. The AM and saprobe fungi increased the production of xyloglucanases by plant roots. The level of xyloglucanase activities and the number of xyloglucanolytic isozymes in plants inoculated with G. mosseae and most of the saprobe fungi tested were higher than when both microorganisms were inoculated separately. The possible relationship between xylogucanase activities and the ability of AM and saprobe fungi to improve the dry weight and AM root colonization of plants was discussed. 
20817594	20100907	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Evaluation of white-rot fungi-assisted alkaline/oxidative pretreatment of corn straw undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis by cellulase.	In this study, the effects of biological treatment prior to alkaline/oxidative (A/O) pretreatment using three white-rot fungi (Ganoderma lucidum, Trametes versicolor and Echinodontium taxodii) were evaluated for the enzymatic hydrolysis of corn straw. Among these fungi, Echinodontium taxodii significantly enhanced the efficiency of chemical pretreatment. Subsequent to treatment of corn straw with Echinodontium taxodii for 15 days, the straw was subjected to digestion by 0.0016% NaOH and 3% H₂O₂ at room temperature for 24 h, which increased the reducing sugar yield by 50.7%. The hydrolysis model and kinetic parameters were determined from time course data collected throughout the hydrolysis. The initial hydrolysis rate, V₀, of the corn straw increased by 68.5% compared to A/O pretreatment alone, which resulted from an increase in the initial adsorption. The lignin content of the corn straw decreased more significantly after biological and A/O pretreatment than after A/O pretreatment alone. After 72 h of enzymatic hydrolysis, the adsorbed cellulase decreased by 24.8% (from 3.67 to 2.76 mg ml⁻¹) compared to A/O pretreatment alone. These results indicate that biological treatment improves the desorption of cellulase by enhancing delignification during A/O pretreatment. 
22265982	20120124	Bioresour._Technol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Display of cellulases on the cell surface of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for high yield ethanol production from high-solid lignocellulosic biomass.	Economically feasible processes for industrial cellulosic ethanol production requires increasing the final ethanol titer during fermentation due to the high energy demands of the subsequent ethanol distillation. In the present study, high-yield ethanol production was achieved by short-term liquefaction and fermentation of lignocellulose biomass in a novel drum-type rotary fermentation system using a yeast strain developed for cell-surface display of fungal endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, and β-glucosidase. In the presence of 10 FPU/g-biomass cellulase added, the recombinant cellulolytic strain produced 1.4-fold higher ethanol (89% of theoretical yield) from high-solid (200 g-dry weight/L) rice straw within 72 h of fermentation than wild type strain. Cell-surface engineering successfully reduced the amount of commercial enzyme required for the fermentation of cellulose. This study demonstrates that cellulases displayed on the yeast cell surface are capable of hydrolyzing cellulose that was not hydrolyzed by commercial cellulases, leading to increased sugar utilization for improved ethanol production. 
11847251	20020216	J._Exp._Bot.	D016428 D013485 	Localized versus systemic effect of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on defence responses to Phytophthora infection in tomato plants.	Development of biological control for plant diseases is accepted as a durable and environmentally friendly alternative for agrochemicals. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), which form symbiotic associations with root systems of most agricultural, horticultural and hardwood crop species, have been suggested as widespread potential bioprotective agents. In the present study the ability of two AMF (Glomus mosseae and Glomus intraradices) to induce local or systemic resistance to Phytophthora parasitica in tomato roots have been compared using a split root experimental system. Glomus mosseae was effective in reducing disease symptoms produced by P. parasitica infection, and evidence points to a combination of local and systemic mechanisms being responsible for this bioprotector effect. The biochemical analysis of different plant defence-related enzymes showed a local induction of mycorrhiza-related new isoforms of the hydrolytic enzymes chitinase, chitosanase and beta-1,3-glucanase, as well as superoxide dismutase, an enzyme which is involved in cell protection against oxidative stress. Systemic alterations of the activity of some of the constitutive isoforms were also observed in non-mycorrhizal roots of mycorrhizal plants. Studies on the lytic activity against Phytophthora cell wall of root protein extracts also corroborated a systemic effect of mycorrhizal symbiosis on tomato resistance to Phytophthora. 
9772752	19981017	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Aberrant processing of wild-type and mutant bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor secreted by Aspergillus niger.	Bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI) was secreted by Aspergillus niger at yields of up to 23 mg l-1 using a protein fusion strategy. BPTI was linked to part of the fungal glucoamylase protein (GAM) with a dibasic amino acid (KEX2) processing site at the fusion junction. Electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry and N-terminal protein sequencing revealed that, although biologically active in vitro, the purified products from a number of independent transformants consisted of a mixture of BPTI molecules differing at the N-terminus. Approximately 35-60% of this mixture was processed correctly. Aberrant processing of the GAM-BPTI fusion protein by the A. niger KEX2-like endoprotease was the most likely cause of this variation although the involvement of other fungal endoproteases could not be ruled out. In vitro studies have highlighted a weak interaction between BPTI and the Saccharomyces cerevisiae KEX2 endoprotease, suggesting that BPTI is not a potent inhibitor of KEX2p. A small proportion of the recombinant BPTI (10%) showed 'nicking' of the K15-A16 bond, indicating an interaction with a fungal trypsin-like enzyme. Mutant BPTI homologues designed to have anti-elastase activity, BPTI(K15V), BPTI(K15V,P13I) and BPTI(K15V,G12A), have also been expressed and secreted by A. niger. They also showed a similar spectrum of aberrant N-terminal processing but no 'nicking' of the K15-V16 bond was observed. Comparison of A. niger with other expression systems showed that it is an effective system for producing BPTI and its homologues, although not all molecules were correctly processed. This variation in processing efficiency may be useful in understanding the important determinants of protein processing in this fungus. 
21642024	20110607	N_Biotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Co-cultivation of mutant Penicillium oxalicum SAU(E)-3.510 and Pleurotus ostreatus for simultaneous biosynthesis of xylanase and laccase under solid-state fermentation.	Co-cultivation of mutant Penicillium oxalicum SAU(E)-3.510 and Pleurotus ostreatus MTCC 1804 was evaluated for the production of xylanase-laccase mixture under solid-state fermentation (SSF) condition. Growth compatibility between mutant P. oxalicum SAU(E)-3.510 and white rot fungi (P. ostreatus MTCC 1804, Trametes hirsuta MTCC 136 and Pycnoporus sp. MTCC 137) was analyzed by growing them on potato dextrose agar plate. Extracellular enzyme activities were determined spectrophotometrically. Under derived conditions, paired culturing of mutant P. oxalicum SAU(E)-3.510 and P. ostreatus MTCC 1804 resulted in 58% and 33% higher levels of xylanase and laccase production, respectively. A combination of sugarcane bagasse and black gram husk in a ratio of 3:1 was found to be the most ideal solid substrate and support for fungal colonization and enzyme production during co-cultivation. Maximum levels of xylanase (8205.31 ± 168.31 IU g(-1)) and laccase (375.53 ± 34.17 IU g(-1)) during SSF were obtained by using 4 g of solid support with 80% of moisture content. Furthermore, expressions of both xylanase and laccase were characterized during mixed culture by zymogram analysis. Improved levels of xylanase and laccase biosynthesis were achieved by co-culturing the mutant P. oxalicum SAU(E)-3.510 and P. ostreatus MTCC 1804. This may be because of efficient substrate utilization as compared to their respective monocultures in the presence of lignin degradation compounds because of synergistic action of xylanase and laccase. Understanding and developing the process of co-cultivation appears productive for the development of mixed enzyme preparation with tremendous potential for biobleaching. 
18836000	20081007	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	SOD1, a new Kluyveromyces lactis helper gene for heterologous protein secretion.	Bottlenecks in protein expression and secretion often limit the development of industrial processes. By manipulating chaperone and foldase levels, improvements in yeast secretion were found for a number of proteins. Recently, sustained endoplasmic reticulum stress, occurring due to recombinant protein production, was reported to cause oxidative stress in yeast. Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells are able to trigger an adaptive response to oxidative-stress conditions, resulting in the upregulation of both primary and secondary antioxidant defenses. SOD1 encodes for a superoxide dismutase that catalyzes the dismutation of superoxide anions (O(2)(-)) into oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. It is a Cu(2+)/Zn(2+) metalloenzyme and represents an important antioxidant defense in nearly all aerobic and aerotolerant organisms. We found that overexpression of the Kluyveromyces lactis SOD1 (KlSOD1) gene was able to increase the production of two different heterologous proteins, human serum albumin (HSA) and glucoamylase from Arxula adeninivorans. In addition, KlSOD1 overexpression led to a significant decrease in the amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that originated during protein production. The yield of HSA also increased when K. lactis cells were grown in the presence of the antioxidant agent ascorbic acid and decreased when cells were challenged with menadione, a ROS generator compound. Moreover, we observed that, in high-osmolarity medium, cells overexpressing KlSOD1 showed higher growth rates than control cells. Our results thus further support the notion that the production of some heterologous proteins may be improved by manipulating genes involved in general stress responses. 
17159236	20061213	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Gene transfer between different Trichoderma species and Aspergillus niger through intergeneric protoplast fusion to convert ground rice straw to citric acid and cellulases.	Single-stage direct bioconversion of cellulosic materials to citric acid using intergeneric hybrids obtained from three different Trichoderma species and Aspergillus niger was carried out. The recent results were obtained on the basis of either resistance or sensitivity to one or more of five metal ions, two catabolite repressors, and five antifungal agents, which were used in this study at different concentrations. Sixty-six fusants were isolated after using the three intergeneric protoplast fusion experiments, belonging to two types of intergeneric fusants. Fusants of the first type are heterokaryons (35 fusants). On the other hand, those of the second type are haploids (31 fusants), i.e., they were stable. The present study can be successfully applied in the construction of 14 new genetic fusants, which produced at least 100% more citric acid than the citric acid producer strain A. niger. Out of the fusants, three (1/18, 2/13 and 2/15) showed about a threefold increase of citric acid production in comparison with the parent A. niger strain. Furthermore, studies on DNA content showed that this finding may be submitted on the evidence that citric acid and cellulases production was not correlated with DNA content; however, the productivity depends on specific DNA content. 
1378	19760101	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Acid protease activity during germination of microcysts of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum.	Extracts of dormant microcysts of Polysphondylium pallidum demonstrate pH optima for the hydrolysis of casein at 3.5 and 6.0. During germination the intracellular pH 6.0 caseinolytic specific activity does not change significantly. The pH 6.0 protease is also active on azo-albumin, revealing the same developmental pattern with this substrate. Both acid protease activities are excreted during the germination process. Addition of purified nonspecific protease to cultures speeds up germination, suggesting that the excreted protease may play a role in removal of the microcyst wall. When cycloheximide is added to cultures, complete germination (emergence) is stopped whereas the pH 6.0 protease activity still accumulates to between 50 and 60% of the maximum control activity. Although this suggests that post-translational controls might mediate the accumulation of a portion of the pH 6.0 protease increase, mixing and dilution experiments with cell extracts do not reveal the differential presence of soluble activators or inhibitors of this activity at different developmental stages. The presence of tightly bound enzyme-inhibitor complexes for protease B in dormant microcysts has not been ruled out and is currently under study. 
18025569	20071121	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Improved cellulase production by Trichoderma reesei RUT C30 under SSF through process optimization.	The major constraint in the enzymatic saccharification of biomass for ethanol production is the cost of cellulase enzymes. Production cost of cellulases may be brought down by multifaceted approaches which includes the use of cheap lignocellulosic substrates for fermentation production of the enzyme, and the use of cost efficient fermentation strategies like solid state fermentation (SSF). The current study investigated the production of cellulase by Trichoderma reesei RUT C30 on wheat bran under SSF. Process parameters important in cellulase production were identified by a Plackett and Burman design and the parameters with significant effects on enzyme production were optimized for maximal yield using a central composite rotary design (CCD). Higher initial moisture content of the medium had a negative effect on production whereas incubation temperature influenced cellulase production positively in the tested range. Optimization of the levels of incubation temperature and initial moisture content of the medium resulted in a 6.2 fold increase in production from 0.605 to 3.8 U/gds of cellulase. The optimal combination of moisture and temperature was found to be 37.56% and 30 degrees C, respectively, for maximal cellulase production by the fungus on wheat bran. 
18210175	20080123	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Novel cellulases from an extremophilic filamentous fungi Penicillium citrinum: production and characterization.	The enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose has potential economical and environment-friendly applications. Therefore, discovery of new extremophilic cellulases is essential to meet the requirements of industry. Penicillium citrinum (MTCC 6489) that was previously isolated from soil in our laboratory, produced alkali tolerant and thermostable cellulases. Endoglucanase and filter paper activity hydrolase (FPAse) production of P. citrinum were studied using wheat bran substrate in solid state and submerged culture. Zymogram analysis of endoglucanase revealed the presence of two isoforms differing in molecular weight. One of them was 90 kDa and other one was 38 kDa. Partially purified endoglucanase showed two different peaks at pH 5.5 and 8.0, respectively, in its pH optima curve. But FPase showed only one peak (at pH 6.5) in its pH optima curve. Cellulase of P. citrinum is thermostable in nature. The present work reports for the first time, the alkali stable cellulase from alkali tolerant fungus Penicillium citrinum. Thermostable endoglucanase from P. citrinum may have potential effectiveness as additives to laundry detergents. 
22132219	20111202	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Competitive performance of transgenic wheat resistant to powdery mildew.	Genetically modified (GM) plants offer an ideal model system to study the influence of single genes that confer constitutive resistance to pathogens on the ecological behaviour of plants. We used phytometers to study competitive interactions between GM lines of spring wheat Triticum aestivum carrying such genes and control lines. We hypothesized that competitive performance of GM lines would be reduced due to enhanced transgene expression under pathogen levels typically encountered in the field. The transgenes pm3b from wheat (resistance against powdery mildew Blumeria graminis) or chitinase and glucanase genes from barley (resistance against fungi in general) were introduced with the ubiquitin promoter from maize (pm3b and chitinase genes) or the actin promoter from rice (glucanase gene). Phytometers of 15 transgenic and non-transgenic wheat lines were transplanted as seedlings into plots sown with the same 15 lines as competitive environments and subject to two soil nutrient levels. Pm3b lines had reduced mildew incidence compared with control lines. Chitinase and chitinase/glucanase lines showed the same high resistance to mildew as their control in low-nutrient treatment and slightly lower mildew rates than the control in high-nutrient environment. Pm3b lines were weaker competitors than control lines. This resulted in reduced yield and seed number. The Pm3b line with the highest transgene expression had 53.2% lower yield than the control whereas the Pm3b line which segregated in resistance and had higher mildew rates showed only minor costs under competition. The line expressing both chitinase and glucanase genes also showed reduced yield and seed number under competition compared with its control. Our results suggest that single transgenes conferring constitutive resistance to pathogens can have ecological costs and can weaken plant competitiveness even in the presence of the pathogen. The magnitude of these costs appears related to the degree of expression of the transgenes. 
413483	19771201	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013486 	Preparation of mutants of Trichoderma reesei with enhanced cellulase production.	The development of an agar plate screening technique has allowed the isolation of a range of mutants of Trichoderma reesei capable of synthesizing cellulase under conditions of high catabolite repression. The properties of one of these mutants (NG-14) is described to illustrate the use of this technique. NG-14 produced five times the filter paper-degrading activity per ml of culture medium and twice the specific activity per mg of excreted protein in submerged culture when compared with the best existing mutant, QM9414. NG-14 also showed enhanced endo-beta-glucanase and beta-glucosidase production. Although these mutants were isolated as cellulase producers in the presence of 5% glycerol on agar plates, in similar liquid medium, NG-14 exhibits only partial derepression of the cellulase complex. Since the proportions of filter paper activity, endo-beta-glucanase, and cellobiase were not the same in mutants NG-14 and QM9414, and the yields of each enzyme under conditions repressive for cellulase synthesis were different, differential control of each enzyme of the cellulase complex is implied. These initial results suggest that the selective technique for isolating hyper-cellulase-producing mutants of Trichoderma will be of considerable use in the development of commercially useful cellulolytic strains. 
20459124	20100513	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Immobilization of cellulase on a reversibly soluble-insoluble support: properties and application.	Cellulase was coupled to N-succinyl-chitosan (NSC) showing soluble-insoluble characteristics with pH change. Cellulase immobilized on NSC (NSCC) is in a soluble state during the enzyme reaction, yet can be recovered in its insoluble form by lowering the pH of the reaction solution after the reaction. NSCC was obtained under the optimized immobilization conditions of 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC) 10 mg, cellulase 15 mg, and pH 5.0. The retention activity of the immobilized cellulase was found to be 48.8%. The effects of pH and temperature on the activity and stability of NSCC were studied and compared with those of free cellulase. The optimum temperature and pH of NSCC was 45 degrees C and 4.0, respectively, which was found unchanged compared with the free one. The stability of cellulase against change in the pH and temperature was improved by the immobilization. The effectiveness of employing NSCC for extracting flavonoids from Ginkgo biloba leaf powder was investigated. Results showed that NSCC enhanced extraction yield up to 2.35-fold when compared with the conventional method. Moreover, NSCC retained 83.5% of its initial activity after five batches of hydrolysis reaction. 
21465179	20110406	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Interactions of fungi from fermented sausage with regenerated cellulose casings.	This research examined cellulolytic effects of fungi and other microbes present in cured sausages on the strength and stability of regenerated cellulose casings (RCC) used in the sausage industry. Occasionally during the curing process, RCC would split or fail, thereby leading to loss of product. The fungus Penicillium sp. BT-F-1, which was isolated from fermented sausages, and other fungi, which were introduced to enable the curing process, produced small amounts of cellulases on RCC in both liquid and solid cultivations. During continued incubation for 15-60 days in solid substrate cultivation (SSC) on RCC support, the fungus Penicillium sp isolate BT-F-1 degraded the casings' dry weights by 15-50% and decreased their tensile strengths by ~75%. Similarly commercial cellulase(s) resulted in 20-50% degradation of RCC in 48 h. During incubation with Penicillium sp BT-F-1, the surface structure of RCC collapsed, resulting in loss of strength and stability of casings. The matrix of industrial RCC comprised 88-93% glucose polymer residues with 0.8-4% xylan impurities. Premature casing failure appeared to result from operating conditions in the manufacturing process that allowed xylan to build up in the extrusion bath. The sausage fungus Penicillium sp BT-F-1 produced xylanases to break down soft xylan pockets prior to slow cellulosic dissolution of RCC. 
12009808	20020516	J._Invertebr._Pathol.	D016428 D013486 	Transformants of Metarhizium anisopliae sf. anisopliae overexpressing chitinase from Metarhizium anisopliae sf. acridum show early induction of native chitinase but are not altered in pathogenicity to Manduca sexta.	Extracellular chitinase activity has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several fungal infections. Following induction with chitin, the insect pathogens Metarhizium anisopliae sf. acridum ARSEF strain 324 and Metarhizium anisopliae sf. anisopliae ARSEF strain 2575 secrete 44-kDa basic and acidic isoforms of endochitinase, respectively. The gene from strain 324 (Chit1) was cloned and inserted into the genome of strain 2575 under the control of Aspergillus regulatory elements such that transgenic 2575 (2575-Chit(+)) expressed CHIT1 in a noninducing medium (i.e., not containing chitin). Isoelectric focusing followed by a zymogram technique revealed that neither wild-type 2575 nor 2575-Chit(+) produced significant amounts of the native 2575 acidic chitinase in a noninducing medium. However, in a chitin-containing medium, 2575-Chit(+) produced the native chitinase earlier than strain 2575, soon after secretion of CHIT1. We hypothesize that this is due to the production of soluble inducers following chitin hydrolysis by CHIT1 and that M. anisopliae uses enzymes expressed at low levels to sense the nature of the polymeric nutrient present in the immediate environment. However, the chitinase overproducers did not show altered virulence to caterpillars (Manduca sexta) compared to the wild-type fungus, suggesting that wild-type levels of chitinase are not limiting for cuticle penetration. 
7579664	19951001	Curr._Opin._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Production of recombinant proteins in the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei.	The potential of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei for producing heterologous proteins has recently been demonstrated with a number of secreted proteins. Rate-limiting steps and ways of improving the production have been studied, especially using antibody Fab fragments. Major improvements have been achieved by producing the foreign protein fused to the fungal cellulase cellobiohydrolase I. In addition to the strong inducible cbh1 promoter, other promoters, which are regulated in a different manner, have been developed. 
8987852	19961101	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Sequence-specific binding sites in the Taka-amylase A G2 promoter for the CreA repressor mediating carbon catabolite repression.	The N-terminal part of the CreA protein encompassing two zinc fingers was expressed in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with the maltose binding protein (MalE) of E. coli. Our results show that CreA binds to the promoter of the Taa-G2 gene encoding Taka-amylase A of Aspergillus oryzae. DNase I footprinting experiments showed that CreA bound to three sites with high affinity and to one site with low affinity within the first 401-bp region upstream of the transcription initiation site. All of the sites contained sequences related to the CreA consensus binding site (5'-SYGGRG-3'), and are suggested to participate in repression of the Taa-G2 gene in response to glucose. 
23297640	20130110	Zh._Mikrobiol._Epidemiol._Immunobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Role of associative microsymbionts in functioning of associative symbiosis].	Study the role of associative microsymbionts in biocenosis based on comparative evaluation of interbacterial and epithelial-bacterial interactions on the example of vaginal biotope. Corynebacterium spp., Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli and Lactobacillus spp. and primary epitheliocytes isolated from the lower part of reproductive tract of women were used. Interactions by associant-macropartner vector were evaluated by changes of growth properties and antagonistic activity of the associant under the influence of exometabolites of vaginal epitheliocytes and expression of cytokines by epitheliocytes under the influence of associants. The nature of interaction by associant-dominant vector was evaluated by changes of adhesive properties and biofilm formation of associants and bactericidal activity of peroxide-producing lactobacilli. Groups of associants that are opposite by their function in symbiosis were isolated. An example of associants that stabilize associative symbiosis by stimulating growth and antagonistic activity of dominant, moderate increase of cytokine production by epitheliocytes are corynebacteria, whose growth, biofilm formation, adhesion and antagonism during interaction with dominant and macropartner are also increased. The nature of interaction of associants of the other group (S. aureus and E. coli) with dominant and macropartner is the opposite. The determinative role of hydrogen peroxide in mechanisms of differentiation of associative microsymbionts and functioning of associative symbiosis ofvagina was shown. The proposed approach allows to differentiate associative microsymbionts with various ecological roles, evaluate their contribution into maintenance of the stability of the symbiosis and open new possibilities of management of quality of microbiocenosis. 
23686763	20130521	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 	Mycolytic enzymes produced by Streptomyces violaceusniger and their role in antagonism towards wood-rotting fungi.	Extracellular mycolytic enzymes produced under submerged fermentation by the fungal antagonist Streptomyces violaceusniger MTCC 3959 were characterized. This streptomycete produced higher amounts of extracellular chitinase and protease during late exponential phase, whereas β-1,3-glucanase production was at peak in mid-stationary phase. Cell-free culture filtrate (CCF) exhibited a broad range of antifungal activity against both white rot and brown rot fungi. The inhibitory activity was completely lost after treatment with proteinase K and heat, indicating that extracellular antifungal metabolites are heat labile and proteinaceous in nature. Optimum pH and temperature for enzyme activity were: 9.0 and 60 °C for chitinase; 6.0 and 60 °C for β-1,3-glucanase; and 9.0 and 70 °C for protease. Mycolytic enzymes were moderately thermostable, and had a wide pH stability range extending from pH 5.0 to 10.0. The zymogram analysis of CCF revealed five chitinase isoenzymes with an apparent molecular weight of 20.8, 33.3, 45.6, 67.4, and 114.8 kDa, one β-1,3-glucanase appeared as a single band of ∼131.8 kDa and four protease isoenzymes with approximate molecular weights of 22.8, 62.52, 74.64, and 120.5 kDa. S. violaceusniger MTCC 3959 produced mycolytic enzymes that can be effectively used for suppression of phytopathogenic basidiomycetes. It has the potential to be an effective biofungicide.  
2425654	19860501	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	The use of tolerization in the production of monoclonal antibodies against minor antigenic determinants.	An initial attempt to prepare monoclonal antibodies specific for the Dictyostelium discoideum lysosomal enzyme beta-glucosidase was unsuccessful. All of the antibodies resulting from this fusion recognized an extremely immunogenic epitope that is present on all of the lysosomal enzymes of Dictyostelium. In two succeeding fusions, changes in the immunization schedule intended to increase the immune response to enzyme-specific epitopes were not entirely successful. Although nine hybridomas producing antibodies specific for beta-glucosidase resulted from these two fusions, most (70%) of the cell lines isolated secrete antibodies that recognize the shared, immunodominant epitope. Moreover, the nine beta-glucosidase-specific antibodies proved to be of limited utility since none recognize the native enzyme. Therefore, we attempted to tolerize a BALB/c mouse to the common epitope by injecting the lysosomal enzyme, N-acetylglucosaminidase, within 40 h after birth. As an adult, this animal was immunized with beta-glucosidase. Fusion of the spleen cells from this mouse with myeloma cells resulted in the isolation of nine hybridoma lines that produce antibodies specific for beta-glucosidase. No antibodies reactive with the common epitope were detected. These results suggest that tolerization may provide a means whereby an undesired class of antibody-producing cell lines can be selectively eliminated from the products of a fusion. 
10594117	19991214	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	N-Acylethanolamines in signal transduction of elicitor perception. Attenuation Of alkalinization response and activation of defense gene expression	In a recent study of N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine (NAPE) metabolism in elicitor-treated tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) cells, we identified a rapid release and accumulation of medium-chain N-acylethanolamines (NAEs) (e.g. N-myristoylethanolamine or NAE 14:0) and a compensatory decrease in cellular NAPE (K.D. Chapman, S. Tripathy, B. Venables, A.D. Desouza [1998] Plant Physiol 116: 1163-1168). In the present study, we extend this observation and report a 10- to 50-fold increase in NAE 14:0 content in leaves of tobacco (cv Xanthi) plants treated with xylanase or cryptogein elicitors. Exogenously supplied synthetic NAE species affected characteristic elicitor-induced and short- and long-term defense responses in cell suspensions of tobacco and long-term defense responses in leaves of intact tobacco plants. In general, synthetic NAEs inhibited elicitor-induced medium alkalinization by tobacco cells in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Exogenous NAE 14:0 induced expression of phenylalanine ammonia lyase in a manner similar to fungal elicitors in both cell suspensions and leaves of tobacco. NAE 14:0, but not myristic acid, activated phenylalanine ammonia lyase expression at submicromolar concentrations, well within the range of NAE 14:0 levels measured in elicitor-treated plants. Collectively, these results suggest that NAPE metabolism, specifically, the accumulation of NAE 14:0, are part of a signal transduction pathway that modulates cellular defense responses following the perception of fungal elicitors. 
15130143	20040508	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 	Simple staining detects ultrastructural and biochemical differentiation of vegetative hyphae and fruit body initials in colonies of Pleurotus pulmonarius.	To know the ultrastructural and biochemical differences of vegetative hyphae and fruit body initials in colonies of Pleurotus pulmonarius. Feulgen reagent was used to detects differentiation of hyphae. The intracellular laccases, proteases and beta-1,3-glucanases activity, content of cytoplasmic protein, glycogen and glucans in the cell wall were evaluated in hyphae of fruit body initials and in vegetative hyphae. The thickness of hyphal walls of the vegetative hyphae was also evaluated. Substantial biochemical changes were observed in hyphae of different zones of the fruiting colony. Hyphae at the periphery had thinner walls than in the centre of the colony. Staining correlated with the enzymatic activity, protein, glycogen and glucans, in mycelium and in fruit body initials. The implications are that hyphal maturity in P. pulmonarius involves storage of glucans, in part at least, in the form of a thickened hyphal wall. 
15821130	20050412	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptional response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to the plasma membrane-perturbing compound chitosan.	Chitosan is a plasma membrane-perturbing compound consisting of linear chains of beta-1,4-linked glucosamine residues, which at acidic pHs become positively charged. It is extensively used as an antimicrobial compound, yet its mode of action is still unresolved. Chitosan strongly affected the growth of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the food spoilage yeast Zygosaccharomyces bailii, and two human-pathogenic yeasts, Candida albicans and Candida glabrata. Microarray analysis of yeast cells treated with sublethal concentrations of chitosan revealed induction of the environmental stress response and three more major transcriptional responses. The first was a rapid and stable Cin5p-mediated response. Cin5p/Yap4p is a transcription factor involved in various stress responses. Deletion of CIN5 led to increased chitosan sensitivity. The second was a Crz1p-mediated response, which is delayed compared to the Cin5p response. Crz1p is a transcription factor of the calcineurin pathway. Cells deleted for CRZ1 or treated with the calcineurin inhibitor FK506 became hypersensitive to chitosan, supporting the notion that the Crz1p-controlled response offers protection against chitosan. The third was a strong Rlm1p-mediated response which ran parallel in time with the Crz1p-regulated response. Rlm1p is a transcription factor of the cell wall integrity pathway, which is activated by cell wall stress. Importantly, chitosan-treated cells became more resistant to beta-1,3-glucanase, which is a well-known response to cell wall stress. We propose that the transcriptional response to chitosan may be representative of other plasma membrane-perturbing compounds. 
14640962	20031204	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 	Isolation and properties of major components of Penicillium canescens extracellular enzyme complex.	The composition of the enzyme complex secreted by Penicillium canescens was investigated. A scheme for purification of the main components of the complex by chromatofocusing on a Mono P column was developed. It was found that along with beta-galactosidase, the major components of the complex were endo-beta-1,4-xylanase (31 kD, pI 8.2-9.3), alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase (60 kD, pI 7.6), arabinoxylan-arabinofuranohydrolase (70 kD, pI 3.8-4.0), and endo-beta-1,3/1,4-glucanase (40 kD, pI 4.4). The substrate specificity, pH and temperature activity optima, adsorbability, thermal stability, and ability for synergic interaction of the isolated enzymes were studied. 
11826908	20020206	Biodegradation	D016428 	Biodegradation of lignocellulosic waste by Aspergillus terreus.	Biodegradation of lignocellulosic waste by Aspergillus terreus is reported for the first time. This isolate produced 250 CMCase (carboxymethyl cellulase or endoglucanase) U.ml(-1) and biodegraded hay and straw during 3 days and the biomass production on straw was 5g.L(-1) dry weight from 0.25 cm2 inoculated mycellium. This strain secreted endocellulases and exocellulases in the culture medium, but some of the enzymes produced, remained cell membrane bound. Cell bound enzymes were released by various treatments. The highest amount of endoglucanase and exoglucanase was released when the cells were treated with sonication. Aspergillus terreus was added to two tanks containing sugar wastewater and pulp manufacturing waste, as a seed for COD removal. This fungus reduced the COD by 40-80 percent, also, ammonia was reduced from 14.5 mM to 5.6 mM in sugar beet wastewater. The effects of crude enzyme of this fungus for COD removal was studied. 
22712405	20120621	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D016428 D013485 	[Characterization and production optimization of a chitinase (Tachil) from Trichoderma asperellum in recombinant Pichia pastoris expression system].	We characterized a chitinase (Tachi1) from Trichoderma asperellum and optimized its production conditions, by methanol induction of the recombinant strain Pichia pastoris GS-tachi1-K transformed with the gene tachi1 (GenBank accession: GU457411). We purified Tachi1 from the fermentation broth to analyze enzymatic properties after it was secreted by GS-tachi1-K. The production conditions of GS-tachi1-K were optimized by single-factor experiment and orthogonal experiment. The molecular weight of Tachi1 was about 44 kDa. Tachil had a broad range of temperature and pH adaption with the optimal reaction temperature at 50 degrees C and pH 5.5. It was stable at the temperature below 50 degrees C, yet less stable under alkaline conditions. Its activity was significantly reduced by 0.05 mol/L of Ag+, Hg2+, Cu2+, Fe2+, 1% of Sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and 10 mmol/L of beta-mercaptoethanol. The optimum conditions obtained were: initial cell density with an OD600 equal to 2, 0.5% of methanol, pH 6.5, induction time 180 h. Under the optimized condition, the activity of Tachi1 reached 17.93 U/mL and the expression of tachi1 was 6.19 g/L. The recombinant strain GS-tachi1-K showed high expression of tachi1 and the protein secreted by GS-tachi1-K had high chitinase activity. It will provide theoretical basis for further research and application in this chitinase. 
22940347	20120904	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Inhibition of xyloglucanase from an alkalothermophilic Thermomonospora sp. by a peptidic aspartic protease inhibitor from Penicillium sp. VM24.	A bifunctional inhibitor from Penicillium sp VM24 causing inactivation of xyloglucanase from Thermomonospora sp and an aspartic protease from Aspergillus saitoi was identified. Steady state kinetics studies of xyloglucanase and the inhibitor revealed an irreversible, non-competitive, two-step inhibition mechanism with IC(50) and K(i) values of 780 and 500nM respectively. The interaction of o-phthalaldehyde (OPTA)-labeled xyloglucanase with the inhibitor revealed that the inhibitor binds to the active site of the enzyme. Far- and near-UV spectrophotometric analysis suggests that the conformational changes induced in xyloglucanase by the inhibitor may be due to irreversible denaturation of enzyme. The bifunctional inhibitor may have potential as a biocontrol agent for the protection of plants against phytopathogenic fungi. 
20722299	20100821	Arch_Anim_Nutr	D016428 	Fermentative characteristics and fibrolytic activities of anaerobic gut fungi isolated from wild and domestic ruminants.	Fermentative characteristics and fibrolytic enzyme activities of anaerobic gut fungi from wild (17 isolates) and domestic ruminants (15 isolates) were examined. In a medium containing 0.5% wheat straw and 0.02% cellobiose as energy source, activities of carboxymethyl cellulase (CMCase), avicelase, xylanase, acetyl esterase and protease produced by the fungal isolates were investigated. Average activity of CMCase (17.4 vs. 8.25 mIU ml(-1)), acetyl esterase (134 vs. 57 mIU ml(-1)) and protease (4400 vs. 1683 mIU ml(-1)) were significantly higher in isolates from wild ruminants than those from domestic ruminants. Xylanase and avicelase activities were comparable. When compared irrespective of source, fungal isolates having monocentric growth pattern produced more fibrolytic enzymes than isolates having polycentric growth pattern. CMCase, xylanase, avicelase activities were highest in Neocallimastix isolates. Acetyl esterase activity was highest in Piromyces and Neocallimastix isolates. Protease activity was highest in Piromyces isolates followed closely by Neocallimastix isolates. Between isolates from wild and domestic ruminants few differences were observed in pattern of carbohydrate utilisation and end products of fermentation. Inter-strain differences in the end product formation were apparent. All of the isolates produced acetate, lactate and formate; only a few isolates produced succinate. For isolation of superior fibrolytic isolates of anaerobic fungi, greater emphasis should be given to the screening of enzyme activities of isolates of genera Neocallimastix and Piromyces. 
21670522	20110615	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Ethanol production from xylo-oligosaccharides by xylose-fermenting Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing β-xylosidase.	Construction of xylose- and xylo-oligosaccharide-fermenting Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains is important, because hydrolysates derived from lignocellulosic biomass contain significant amounts of these sugars. We have obtained recombinant S. cerevisiae strain MA-D4 (D-XKXDHXR), expressing xylose reductase, xylitol dehydrogenase and xylulokinase. In the present study, we generated recombinant strain D-XSD/XKXDHXR by transforming MA-D4 with a β-xylosidase gene cloned from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. The intracellular β-xylosidase-specific activity of D-XSD/XKXDHXR was high, while that of the control strain was under the limit of detection. D-XSD/XKXDHXR produced ethanol, and xylose accumulated in the culture supernatant under fermentation in a medium containing xylo-oligosaccharides as sole carbon source. β-Xylosidase-specific activity in D-XSD/XKXDHXR declined due to xylose both in vivo and in vitro. D-XSD/XKXDHXR converted xylo-oligosaccharides in an enzymatic hydrolysate of eucalyptus to ethanol. These results indicate that D-XSD/XKXDHXR efficiently converted xylo-oligosaccharides to xylose and subsequently to ethanol. 
23022488	20121002	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	A potential role for an extracellular methanol oxidase secreted by Moniliophthora perniciosa in Witches' broom disease in cacao.	The hemibiotrophic basidiomycete fungus Moniliophthora perniciosa, the causal agent of Witches' broom disease (WBD) in cacao, is able to grow on methanol as the sole carbon source. In plants, one of the main sources of methanol is the pectin present in the structure of cell walls. Pectin is composed of highly methylesterified chains of galacturonic acid. The hydrolysis between the methyl radicals and galacturonic acid in esterified pectin, mediated by a pectin methylesterase (PME), releases methanol, which may be decomposed by a methanol oxidase (MOX). The analysis of the M. pernciosa genome revealed putative mox and pme genes. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR performed with RNA from mycelia grown in the presence of methanol or pectin as the sole carbon source and with RNA from infected cacao seedlings in different stages of the progression of WBD indicate that the two genes are coregulated, suggesting that the fungus may be metabolizing the methanol released from pectin. Moreover, immunolocalization of homogalacturonan, the main pectic domain that constitutes the primary cell wall matrix, shows a reduction in the level of pectin methyl esterification in infected cacao seedlings. Although MOX has been classically classified as a peroxisomal enzyme, M. perniciosa presents an extracellular methanol oxidase. Its activity was detected in the fungus culture supernatants, and mass spectrometry analysis indicated the presence of this enzyme in the fungus secretome. Because M. pernciosa possesses all genes classically related to methanol metabolism, we propose a peroxisome-independent model for the utilization of methanol by this fungus, which begins with the extracellular oxidation of methanol derived from the demethylation of pectin and finishes in the cytosol. 
19966485	20091208	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Optimization of xylanase production by Thermomyces lanuginosus in solid state fermentation.	Extracellular xylanase production by the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus 195 in solid state fermentation (SSF) was found to be significantly affected by fermentation temperature, duration, and inoculum volume (p < or = 0.001). Optimization of these parameters corresponded to a 21.7% increase in xylanase yield. Maximum activity (2,335 U/g of wheat bran) was obtained when 10 g of wheat bran was inoculated with 10 ml of liquid culture and cultivated at 45 degrees C for 40 h. The influence of supplemental carbon and nitrogen sources (3% w/v) on xylanase production was also assessed. Wheat bran, supplemented with glucose and cellulose, facilitated 10% and 7% increases in relative activity respectively. Ammonium based salts, nitrates, and a number of organic nitrogen sources served only to reduce xylanase production (p < or = 0.005) significantly. The enhanced xylanase titers achieved in the present study emphasize the need for optimizing growth conditions for maximum enzyme production in SSF. 
21856825	20110823	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Differential regulation of orthologous chitinase genes in mycoparasitic Trichoderma species.	Mycoparasitic Trichoderma species have expanded numbers of fungal subgroup C chitinases that contain multiple carbohydrate binding modules and could thus be important for fungal cell wall degradation during the mycoparasitic attack. In this study, we analyzed the gene regulation of subgroup C chitinases in the mycoparasite Trichoderma virens. In addition to regulation by nutritional stimuli, we found complex expression patterns in different parts of the fungal colony, and also, the mode of cultivation strongly influenced subgroup C chitinase transcript levels. Thus, the regulation of these genes is governed by a combination of colony-internal and -external signals. Our results showed completely different expression profiles of subgroup C chitinase genes in T. virens than in a previous study with T. atroviride, although both fungi are potent mycoparasites. Only a few subgroup C chitinase orthologues were found in T. atroviride and T. virens, and even those showed substantially divergent gene expression patterns. Microscopic analysis revealed morphogenetic differences between T. atroviride and T. virens, which could be connected to differential subgroup C chitinase gene expression. The biological function of fungal subgroup C chitinases therefore might not be as clear-cut as previously anticipated. They could have pleiotropic roles and might be involved in both degradation of exogenous chitinous carbon sources, including other fungal cell walls, and recycling of their own cell walls during hyphal development and colony formation. 
21702076	20110625	Environ._Toxicol.	D016428 D013485 	ISTA 14--impact of antibiotics from pig slurry on soil microbial communities, including the basidiomycete Trametes versicolor.	Livestock slurry containing antibiotics is a source of contamination of agricultural soils, with possible effects on soil function and micro-organisms. Extracellular oxido-reductases and hydrolases from the fungus T. versicolor and fungal growth were monitored in liquid cultures in the presence of tetracycline, lincomycine, sulfadiazine and ciprofloxacin for 10 days, in order to assess the suitability of these enzymes as biomarkers. Among the conditions of treatment, statistical analysis demonstrated an increase in manganese-dependent peroxidase after exposure to sulfadiazine at 1 mg/L when compared with the control. Acid phosphatase activity was decreased by lincomycine at 1 or 10 mg/L. Conversely, β-glucosidase activity increased in the presence of this antibiotic at 10 mg/L. In Terrestrial Model Ecosystems spiked with contaminated pig slurry, lincomycine at the concentration of 8 or 80 μg/kg dry soil, and ciprofloxacin at 250 ng/kg dry soil decreased the activity of soil dehydrogenase, when compared with a green slurry treatment, over 28-day incubations. Laccase activity was similarly decreased in the presence of the highest concentration of antibiotics. We determined bacterial and fungal biomasses using Q-PCR. Bacterial biomass was increased in the presence of lincomycine at 80 μg/kg whatever the time of exposure, and to a lesser extent in the presence of ciprofloxacin at 250 ng/kg, but only at day 28. In contrast, both antibiotics, whatever their concentrations, did not modify fungal biomass in soil. In conclusion, we were unable to demonstrate important effects of antibiotics at concentrations found in the agricultural environment. 
15913967	20050526	Colloids_Surf_B_Biointerfaces	D016428 D013485 	Effect of local stress induction on resistance-related enzymes in cucumber seeding.	In the current study, we found that the stress stimulus can act as a kind of elicitor, which can efficiently induce the resistance of cucumber against fungal pathogen. After the treatment of the stress stimulus on leaves, the activities of resistance-related enzymes were increased significantly. Such as phenylamine ammonia lyase (PAL), peroxidase (POD) and polyphenoloxidase (PPO), which are strongly associated with the plant disease resistance. Also the expression of pathogenesis-related protein (PR protein) were activated by stress stimulus, with the results that the activities of chitinase and beta-l,3-glucanase were increased obviously. The data showed that one of the mechanism of stress stimulus induction plant resistance may act via eliciting the metabolism related disease resistance within plant, which can produce many suppressing and antimicrobial compounds to against pathogens infection efficiently. 
10917454	20000805	J._Pept._Res.	D016428 D013487 	Position 13 analogs of the tridecapeptide mating pheromone from Saccharomyces cerevisiae: design of an iodinatable ligand for receptor binding.	Analogs of the alpha-factor tridecapeptide mating pheromone (WHWLQLKPGQPMY) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae in which Tyr13 was replaced with Phe, p-F-Phe, m-F-Phe, p-NO2-Phe, p-NH2-Phe or Ser were synthesized and purified to >99% homogeneity. These analogs were bioassayed using a growth arrest assay and a gene induction assay and evaluated for their ability to compete with binding of tritiated alpha-factor to its receptor Ste2p. The results showed that the phenolic OH of Tyr13 is not required for either biological activity or receptor recognition. Analogs containing fluorine, amino, nitro or a hydrogen in place of OH had 80-120% of the biological activity of the parent pheromone in the gene induction assay and had receptor affinities from nearly equal to 6-fold lower than that of alpha-factor. In contrast, substitution of Ser or Ala at position 13 resulted in a >100-fold decrease in receptor affinity suggesting that the aromatic ring is involved in binding to the receptor. The lack of a strict requirement for Tyr13 allowed the design of several multiple replacement analogs in which Phe or p-F-Phe were substituted at position 13 and Tyr was placed in other positions of the peptide. These analogs could then be iodinated and used in the development of a highly sensitive receptor-binding assay. One potential receptor ligand [Tyr(125I)1,Nle12, Phe13] alpha-factor exhibited saturable binding with a KD of 81 nM and was competed by alpha-factor for binding in a whole-cell assay. Thus a new family of radioactive ligands for the alpha-factor receptor has been revealed. These ligands should be extremely useful in defining active site residues during mutagenesis and cross-linking studies. 
22621953	20120525	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Purification, gene cloning and characterization of an acidic β-1,4-glucanase from Phialophora sp. G5 with potential applications in the brewing and feed industries.	An extracellular β-1,4-glucanase (CelG5, ∼55.0 kDa) was isolated from the culture filtrate of Phialophora sp. G5, and its encoding gene was cloned. The deduced amino acid sequence of CelG5 was at most 73.6% and 44.0%, respectively, identical with a hypothetical protein from Sordaria macrospora and an experimentally verified GH 7 endo-β-1,4-glucanase of Neurospora tetrasperma FGSC 2508. Native CelG5 had pH and temperature optima of pH 4.5-5.0 and 55-60°C. The enzyme showed some properties superior than most fungal β-1,4-glucanases, such as high activity over a wide pH range (exhibiting >50% of the maximum activity at pH 2.0-7.0), excellent stability in extreme acidic to alkaline conditions (pH 2.0-9.0), and strong resistance against pepsin and trypsin (retaining 89% and 94% activity, respectively). Recombinant CelG5 produced in Pichia pastoris had a molecular mass and a pH optimum similar to native CelG5, but with maximal activity at 65°C. Application tests showed that native CelG5 was stable under simulated gastric conditions (retaining >70% activity), and had capacity to decrease the viscosity of barley-bean feed (8.9% by 200 U CelG5) and mash (6.1% by 50 U CelG5) and increase the filtration rate of mash (18.4% by 50 U CelG5). These properties make CelG5 a good candidate for utilization in the animal feed and brewing industries. 
8032039	19940501	Occup_Med_(Lond)	D016428 D013485 	alpha-Amylase hypersensitivity in non-exposed millers.	Occupational hypersensitivity to alpha-amylase among bakers and workers in the pharmaceutical industry has been described. We present the results of skin tests and in vitro methods used to assess alpha-amylase sensitivity in 259 millers. There was no occupational contact with the enzyme in this population. Positive skin tests to this allergen were obtained in 16 subjects (6.18 per cent), specific IgE values were found in seven subjects (2.7 per cent), specific IgG was detected on 45 workers (17.37 per cent) and high values for IgG (> 2.5 absorbance units) were found in 12 subjects (4.63 per cent). Furthermore, specific IgE and IgG could be determined in several sera by immunoblotting. All these facts suggested that millers were sensitized to Aspergillus oryzae alpha-amylase, although the allergen was not used by these workers. A cross-reaction cannot be excluded; however, it is the authors' opinion that wheat or wheat flour is a natural substrate for fungi and that the moulds that grow on cereals or cereal-derived by-products need to secrete amylases to support their own development. Hence the workers may be indirectly sensitized to amylases. 
10941523	20000815	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Substrate-dependent differential expression of Humicola grisea var. thermoidea cellobiohydrolase genes.	Transcription of fungal cellulase genes may be affected by substrate induction. We studied the expression of Humicola grisea var. thermoidea cellobiohydrolase genes (cbh1.1 and cbh1.2) under induction by several soluble and insoluble carbon sources. Using the RT-PCR technique, the cbh1.2 transcript was detected in all the conditions assayed along the growth curve. Catabolite repression, which frequently occurs in other fungal celluloytic systems, was not observed. On the other hand, cbh1.1 transcription was shown to be driven by insoluble and complex lignocellulosic substrates. In summary, the cbh1.2 gene product is constitutively produced, while cbh1.1 seems to respond to a distinct regulatory mechanism. 
5167808	19711201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Developmental regulation of amylase activity during fruiting of Schizophyllum commune.	During the development of fruit bodies of Schizophyllum commune there is a minimum 10- to 15-fold increase in amylase activity. There is little or no activity in homokaryons or dikaryons. The activity is found early after the onset of morphogenesis and increases until the fruit bodies are mature. Inhibition studies with CO(2) indicate that the activity is directly associated with fruiting, as a change from fruiting to vegetative growth of the dikaryotic mycelium leads to a loss in activity, whereas the already formed fruit bodies show no loss. The activity is unaffected by the level of glucose in the medium. Evidence is presented, based on the mode of starch degradation and on yield and inhibition studies, that the enzyme is a glucoamylase. 
10772465	20000420	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Glucoamylase production in batch, chemostat and fed-batch cultivations by an industrial strain of Aspergillus niger.	The Aspergillus niger strain BO-1 was grown in batch, continuous (chemostat) and fed-batch cultivations in order to study the production of the extracellular enzyme glucoamylase under different growth conditions. In the pH range 2.5-6.0, the specific glucoamylase productivity and the specific growth rate of the fungus were independent of pH when grown in batch cultivations. The specific glucoamylase productivity increased linearly with the specific growth rate in the range 0-0.1 h(-1) and was constant in the range 0.1-0.2 h(-1). Maltose and maltodextrin were non-inducing carbon sources compared to glucose, and the maximum specific growth rate was 0.19 +/- 0.02 h(-1) irrespective of whether glucose or maltose was the carbon source. In fed-batch cultivations, glucoamylase titres of up to 6.5 g l(-1) were obtained even though the strain contained only one copy of the glaA gene. 
15879135	20050510	J._Immunol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Role of IFN-gamma in regulating T2 immunity and the development of alternatively activated macrophages during allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis.	Pulmonary Cryptococcus neoformans infection of C57BL/6 mice is an established model of a chronic pulmonary fungal infection accompanied by an "allergic" response (T2) to the infection, i.e., a model of an allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis. Our objective was to determine whether IFN-gamma plays a role in regulating the pulmonary T2 immune response in C. neoformans-infected C57BL/6 mice. Long-term pulmonary fungistasis was lost in IFN-gamma knockout (KO) mice, resulting in an increased pulmonary burden of fungi at wk 3. IFN-gamma was required for the early influx of leukocytes into the lungs but was not required later in the infection. By wk 3, eosinophil and macrophage numbers were elevated in the absence of IFN-gamma. The inducible NO synthase to arginase ratio was lower in the lungs of IFN-gamma KO mice and the macrophages had increased numbers of intracellular cryptococci and YM1 crystals, indicative of alternatively activated macrophages in these mice. There was evidence of pulmonary fibrosis in both wild-type and IFN-gamma KO mice by 5 wk postinfection. IFN-gamma production was not required for the development of T2 cytokine (IL-4, IL-5, IL-13) producing cells in the lungs and lung-associated lymph nodes or induction of an IgE response. At a number of time points, T2 cytokine production was enhanced in IFN-gamma KO mice. Thus, in the absence of IFN-gamma, C57BL/6 mice develop an augmented allergic response to C. neoformans, including enhanced generation of alternatively activated macrophages, which is accompanied by a switch from a chronic to a progressive pulmonary cryptococcal infection. 
7765191	19940901	Trends_Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	The cellulosome--a treasure-trove for biotechnology.	The cellulases of many cellulolytic bacteria are organized into discrete multienzyme complexes, called cellulosomes. The multiple subunits of cellulosomes are composed of numerous functional domains, which interact with each other and with the cellulosic substrate. One of these subunits comprises a distinctive new class of noncatalytic scaffolding polypeptide, which selectively integrates the various cellulase and xylanase subunits into the cohesive complex. Intelligent application of cellulosome hybrids and chimeric constructs of cellulosomal domains should enable better use of cellulosic biomass and may offer a wide range of novel applications in research, medicine and industry. 
7739049	19950428	J._Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013487 	The refined crystal structure of an endochitinase from Hordeum vulgare L. seeds at 1.8 A resolution.	Class II chitinases (EC 3.2.1.14) are plant defense proteins. They hydrolyze chitin, an insoluble beta-1,4-linked polymer of N-acetylglucosamine (NAG), which is a major cell-wall component of many fungal hyphae. We previously reported the three-dimensional structure of the 26 kDa class II endochitinase from barley seeds at 2.8 A resolution, determined using multiple isomorphous replacement (MIR) methods. Here, we report the crystallographic refinement of this chitinase structure against data to 1.8 A resolution using rounds of hand rebuilding coupled with molecular dynamics (X-PLOR). The final model has an R-value of 18.1% for the 5.0 to 1.8 A data shell and 19.8% for the 10.0 to 1.8 A shell, and root-mean-square deviations from standard bond lengths and angles of 0.017 A and 2.88 degrees, respectively. The 243 residue molecule has one beta-sheet, ten alpha-helices and three disulfide bonds; 129 water molecules are included in the final model. We show structural comparisons confirming that chitinase secondary structure resembles lysozyme at the active site region. Based on substrate binding to lysozyme, we have built a hypothetical model for the binding of a hexasaccharide into the pronounced active site cleft of chitinase. This provides the first view of likely substrate interactions from this family of enzymes; the model is consistent with a lysozyme-like mechanism of action in which Glu67 acts as proton donor and Glu89 is likely to stabilize the transition state oxycarbonium ion. These binding site residues, and many hydrophobic residues are conserved in a range of plant chitinases. This endochitinase structure will serve as a model for other plant chitinases, and that catalytic models based on this structure will be applicable to the entire enzyme family. 
17474017	20070503	J_Environ_Sci_Health_B	D016428 	Use of fungi for the bioconversion of rice straw into cellulase enzyme.	Cellulase production was carried out by solid state bioconversion (SSB) method using rice straw, a lignocellulosic material and agricultural waste, as the substrate of three Trichoderma spp. and Phanerochaete chrysosporium in lab-scale experiments. The results were compared to select the best fungi among them for the production of cellulase. Phanerochaete chrysosporium was found to be the best among these species of fungi, which produced the highest cellulase enzyme of 1.43 IU/mL of filter paper activity (FPase) and 2.40 IU/mL of carboxymethylcellulose activity (CMCase). The "glucosamine" and "reducing sugar" parameters were observed to evaluate the growth and substrate utilization in the experiments. In the case of Phanerochaete Chrysosporium, the highest glucosamine concentration was 1.60 g/L and a high concentration of the release of reducing sugar was measured as 2.58 g/L obtained on the 4th day of fermentation. The pH values were also recorded. The range of the pH was about 5.15 to 5.56 in the case of Phanerochaete Chrysosporium. 
6897241	19820901	J._Antibiot.	D016428 	Studies on the alpha-glucoside hydrolase inhibitor, adiposin. III. alpha Glucoside hydrolase inhibitory activity and antibacterial activity in vitro.	Adiposin-1 and -2 exhibited potent inhibitory activities against alpha-amylase, human salivary alpha-amylase and disaccharidases isolated from porcine small intestine. The effect of adiposin-1 and -2 on hydrolysis of glucoamylase was non-competitive. Adiposin showed antimicrobial activities against some Gram-positive bacteria, Gram-negative bacteria belonging to Enterobacteriaceae, Some anaerobic bacteria and some phytopathogenic fungi, and showed a synergistic effect on the antibacterial activity with some maltooligosaccharides. However, these antibacterial activities were suppressed by addition of various other saccharides. 
23306132	20130112	Bioresour._Technol.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013485 	Detection of feruloyl- and cinnamoyl esterases from basidiomycetes in the presence of interfering laccase.	Little is known on basidiomycete sources of feruloyl esterases (FAEs), although many wood-rotting representatives of these fungi typically grow on feruloyl-rich substrates. A major reason is that the almost ubiquitous presence of laccases interferes with the detection of FAE activity. Laccases polymerize the liberated ferulic acid (FA) in situ, thus detracting the product of enzymatic hydrolysis from its detection. A rapid HPLC-UV method was developed to detect the loss of FA, but also to quantify the hydrolysis of FA esters. The method allows at the same time to evaluate the substrate specificity of a FAE. Forty one basidiomycetes were tested for their FAE activities, and 25 out of the set were positive. The basidiomycetes hydrolyzing cinnamates with the highest conversion rates were Auricularia auricula-judae and Marasmius scorodonius. Moreover, a new FAE inducer, the nonionic detergent Tween 80, was found. This is the first comprehensive study on basidiomycete sources of FAEs. 
22644766	20120531	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Xylem defense wood of Norway spruce compromised by the pathogenic white-rot fungus Heterobasidion parviporum shows a prolonged period of selective decay.	Heterobasidion parviporum, a common pathogenic white-rot fungus in managed Norway spruce forests in northern and central Europe, causes extensive decay columns within stem heartwood of the host tree. Infected trees combat the lateral spread of decay by bordering the heartwood with a fungistatic reaction zone characterized by elevated pH and phenol content. To examine the mode of fungal feeding in the reaction zone of mature Norway spruce trees naturally infected by H. parviporum, we conducted spatial profiling of pectin and hemicellulose composition, and established transcript levels of candidate fungal genes encoding enzymes involved in degradation of the different cell wall components of wood. Colonized inner heartwood showed pectin and hemicellulose concentrations similar to those of healthy heartwood, whereas the carbohydrate profiles of compromised reaction zone, irrespective of the age of fungal activity in the tissue, indicated selective fungal utilization of galacturonic acid, arabinose, xylose and mannose. These data show that the rate of wood decay in the reaction zone is slow. While the up-regulation of genes encoding pectinases and hemicellulases preceded that of the endoglucanase gene during an early phase of fungal interaction with xylem defense, the manganese peroxidase gene showed similar transcript levels during different phases of wood colonization. It seems plausible that the reaction zone components of Norway spruce interfere with both lignin degradation and the associated co-hydrolysis of hemicelluloses and pectin, resulting in a prolonged phase of selective decay. 
24429892	20140117	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Cellulose degradation and cellulase activity of five cellulolytic fungi.	Biodegradation of pure cellulose powder, bagasse and wheatstraw by five cellulolytic fungi,Aspergillus niger, Chaetomium globosum, Scopulariopsis brevicaulis, Trichoderma koningii andTrichothecium roseum, was studied in solid culture conditions. Minimum degradation was with pure cellulose. Bagasse and wheatstraw were the most suitable for growth and activity of cellulolytic fungi. All fungi contained cellulase activity.  
12142142	20020727	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Improving extracellular production of food-use enzymes from Aspergillus nidulans.	Filamentous fungi, and particularly those of the genus Aspergillus, are major producers of enzymatic activities that have important applications in the food and beverage industries. Prior to the availability of transformation systems improvement of industrial production strains was largely restricted to the strategy of mutagenesis, screening and selection. Aspergillus nidulans is a genetically amenable filamentous fungus the ease of handling and analysis of which has led to its use as a model system for the investigation of eukaryotic gene regulation. Although not used industrially it is able to produce a wide variety of extracellular enzymatic activities. As a consequence of half a century of study a considerable resource of characterised mutants has been generated in conjunction with extensive genetic and molecular information on various gene regulatory systems in this micro-organism. Investigation of xylanase gene regulation in A. nidulans as a model for the production of food-use extracellular enzymes suggests strategies by which production of these enzymes in industrially useful species may be improved. 
22012339	20111021	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression, characterization and structural modelling of a feruloyl esterase from the thermophilic fungus Myceliophthora thermophila.	A ferulic acid esterase (FAE) from the thermophilic fungus Myceliophthora thermophila (synonym Sporotrichum thermophile), belonging to the carbohydrate esterase family 1 (CE-1), was functionally expressed in methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. The putative FAE from the genomic DNA was successfully cloned in P. pastoris X-33 to confirm that the enzyme exhibits FAE activity. The recombinant FAE was purified to its homogeneity (39 kDa) and subsequently characterized using a series of model substrates including methyl esters of hydroxycinnamates, alkyl ferulates and monoferuloylated 4-nitrophenyl glycosides. The substrate specificity profiling reveals that the enzyme shows a preference for the hydrolysis of methyl caffeate and p-coumarate and a strong preference for the hydrolysis of n-butyl and iso-butyl ferulate. The enzyme was active on substrates containing ferulic acid ester linked to the C-5 and C-2 linkages of arabinofuranose, whilst it was found capable of de-esterifying acetylated glucuronoxylans. Ferulic acid (FA) was efficiently released from destarched wheat bran when the esterase was incubated together with an M3 xylanase from Trichoderma longibrachiatum (a maximum of 41% total FA released after 1 h incubation). Prediction of the secondary structure of MtFae1a was performed in the PSIPRED server whilst modelling the 3D structure was accomplished by the use of the HH 3D structure prediction server. 
18175902	20080108	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of chitinase A of Streptomyces cyaneus SP-27: an enzyme participates in protoplast formation from Schizophyllum commune mycelia.	A culture filtrate of Bacillus circulans KA-304 grown on a cell-wall preparation of Schizophyllum commune has an activity to form protoplasts from S. commune mycelia. alpha-1,3-Glucanase and chitinase I, which were isolated from the filtrate, did not form the protoplast by itself while a mixture of them showed protoplast-forming activity. Streptomyces cyaneus SP-27 was isolated based on the productivity of chitinase. The culture filtrate of S. cyaneus SP-27 did not form S. commune protoplasts, but addition of it to alpha-1,3-glucanase of B. circulans KA-304 brought about protoplast-forming activity. Chitinase A isolated from the S. cyaneus SP-27 culture filtrate was more effective than chitinase I of B. circulans KA-304 for the protoplast formation in combination with alpha-1,3-glucanase. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of chitinase A (MW 29,000) has a sequential similarity to those of several Streptomycete family 19 chitinases. Chitinase A adsorbed to chitinous substrate and inhibited the growth of Trichoderma reesei mycelia. Anomer analysis of the reaction products also suggested that the enzyme is a family 19 chitinase. 
24085392	20131003	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and enzymatic characterization of four thermostable fungal endo-1,4-β-xylanases.	Endo-1,4-β-xylanases (EC 3.2.1.8) hydrolyze the 1,4-β-D-xylosidic linkages in xylans, the most abundant hemicellulose in plant cell walls. Xylanase enzymes have numerous industrial applications, including the manufacturing of animal feed, bread, juice and wine, pulp and paper, and biofuels. In this study, two glycosyl hydrolase family 10 members designated GtXyn10A and GtXyn10B and two glycosyl hydrolase family 11 members, OpXyn11A and CcXyn11C, were functionally expressed and subjected to biochemical characterization. The K(M), V(max), and k(cat) values of the four xylanases, determined using birchwood xylan, ranged from 0.27 to 1.1 mg/mL, 130 to 980 μmol/min/mg, and 109 to 344 s⁻¹, respectively, where OpXyn11A gave the highest and GtXyn10B the lowest values for all three parameters. Substrate specificity studies and analysis of the products released during the degradation of xylo-oligosaccharides and three types of xylan revealed significant differences in catalytic properties, particularly between OpXyn11A and the other xylanases and between the family 10 and the family 11 xylanases. Molecular modeling suggests that the unique substrate specificity of OpXyn11A can be attributed to the presence of a serine rather that an asparagine or aspartate residue at the +1 substrate binding site. Additionally, all four xylanases exhibited biochemical characteristics of interest for various commercial applications. 
17257167	20070130	Plant_J.	D016428 D013485 	Cuticular defects lead to full immunity to a major plant pathogen.	In addition to its role as a barrier, the cuticle is also a source of signals perceived by invading fungi. Cuticular breakdown products have been shown previously to be potent inducers of cutinase or developmental processes in fungal pathogens. Here the question was addressed as to whether plants themselves can perceive modifications of the cuticle. This was studied using Arabidopsis thaliana plants with altered cuticular structure. The expression of a cell wall-targeted fungal cutinase in A. thaliana was found to provide total immunity to Botrytis cinerea. The response observed in such cutinase-expressing plants is independent of signal transduction pathways involving salicylic acid, ethylene or jasmonic acid. It is accompanied by the release of a fungitoxic activity and increased expression of members of the lipid transfer protein, peroxidase and protein inhibitor gene families that provide resistance when overexpressed in wild-type plants. The same experiments were made in the bodyguard (bdg) mutant of A. thaliana. This mutant exhibits cuticular defects and remained free of symptoms after inoculation with B. cinerea. The expression of resistance was accompanied by the release of a fungitoxic activity and increased expression of the same genes as observed in cutinase-expressing plants. Structural defects of the cuticle can thus be converted into an effective multi-factorial defence, and reveal a hitherto hidden aspect of the innate immune response of plants. 
21948126	20110928	Environ_Sci_Pollut_Res_Int	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Degradation of 2,4-D in soils by Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles combined with stimulating indigenous microbes.	Degradation of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) in soils by Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles combined with soil indigenous microbes was investigated, and the effects of Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles on soil microbial populations and enzyme activities were also studied. The soils contaminated with 2,4-D were treated with Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles. The microbial populations and enzyme activities were analyzed by dilution plate method and chemical assay, respectively, and the concentration of 2,4-D in soil was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The results indicated that Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles combined with soil indigenous microbes led to a higher degradation efficiency of 2,4-D than the treatments with Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles or indigenous microbes alone. The degradation of 2,4-D in soils followed the pseudo first-order kinetic. The half-lives of 2,4-D degradation (DT₅₀) of the combined treatments were 0.9, 1.9 and 3.1 days in a Red soil, Vertisol and Alfisol, respectively, which implied that the DT₅₀ of the combination treatments were significantly shorter than that of the treatments Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles or indigenous microbes alone. The effects of Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles on soil microbial populations and enzyme activities were also investigated and compared with the α-Fe₂O₃ nanoparticles. The results suggested that the α-Fe₂O₃ nanoparticles had only comparatively small effects on degradation of 2,4-D in soils, while the Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles not only degraded 2,4-D in soils but also increased the soil microbial populations and enzyme activities; the maximum increase in enzyme activities were 67.8% (amylase), 53.8% (acid phosphatase), 26.5% (catalase) and 38.0% (urease), compared with the untreated soil. Moreover, the introduction of Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles at the different dosage resulted in a variable degradation efficiency of 2,4-D in soil. The method of combining Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles with indigenous soil microbes may offer great benefits for the application of nanotechnology in remediation of herbicide contaminated soil. 
3766948	19860801	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 	The titration of the active centers of cellobiohydrolase from Trichoderma reesei.	A novel approach has been developed for the titration of enzyme active centers and for the determination of the molecular activity of enzymes. It is based on the simultaneous use of a nonspecific chromogenic substrate and a specific ligand (a substrate or an inhibitor), the latter being tightly bound with the enzyme's active center. The approach is demonstrated using the titration (that is, the determination of the molar concentration of the enzyme active centers) of purified cellobiohydrolase I (CBH I) (EC 3.2.1.91) of the fungus Trichoderma reesei. p-Nitrophenyl-beta-D-lactoside was used as a reference substrate (Km = 0.5 mM), and cellobiose and CM-cellulose as specific ligands. The molecular weight of CBH I as it was determined by the titration with cellobiose was 42,000 +/- 3,000. The inhibition constant by cellobiose was (6 +/- 1) X 10(-6) M. The value of the catalytic constant for the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-lactoside calculated from the titration data was equal to 0.063 s-1. CM-cellulose turned out to be more efficient titration agent for cellobiohydrolase than cellobiose, and might be used for the titration of the enzyme in concentrations of the latter of 0.008-0.02 mg/ml. The titration data showed that the inhibition constant of CM-cellulose toward CBH I was equal to (1.0 +/- 0.2) X 10(-7) M. 
12881405	20030726	Ann._Bot.	D016428 	A study of some biochemical and histopathological responses of wet-stored recalcitrant seeds of Avicennia marina infected by Fusarium moniliforme.	Although fungi cause a recognized problem during storage of recalcitrant seeds of many tropical species, there are no data to date on defence strategies of these seeds against fungal attack. To ascertain whether recalcitrant seeds of Avicennia marina elaborate compounds that might suppress fungal proliferation during hydrated storage, the production and efficacy of beta-1,3-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.39) and chitinase (EC 3.2.1.14) were studied in relation to histopathological changes. Freshly harvested seeds had low beta-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activities and fluorescence microscopy revealed progressive deterioration of the internal tissues of these seeds associated with fungal infection during hydrated storage. In seeds treated to minimize associated fungi (clean seeds), beta-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activities increased significantly during 10 d of hydrated storage. Similar high levels of activity were observed when these seeds were experimentally infected with Fusarium moniliforme and subjected to further storage. The histopathological observations indicated delayed disease development in the 10-d clean-storage period, although the hypersensitive response was not observed. The results suggest that, although the recalcitrant seeds of A. marina elaborate some antifungal enzymes, there is a lack of effective defence strategies that might lead to successful responses against fungal infections. 
12492869	20021221	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Class V chitin synthase determines pathogenesis in the vascular wilt fungus Fusarium oxysporum and mediates resistance to plant defence compounds.	Chitin, a beta-1,4-linked polysaccharide of N-acetylglucosamine, is a major structural component of fungal cell walls. Fungi have multiple classes of chitin synthases that catalyse N-acetylglucosamine polymerization. Here, we demonstrate the requirement for a class V chitin synthase during host infection by the vascular wilt pathogen Fusarium oxysporum. The chsV gene was identified in an insertional mutagenesis screen for pathogenicity mutants. ChsV has a putative myosin motor and a chitin synthase domain characteristic of class V chitin synthases. The chsV insertional mutant and a gene replacement mutant of F. oxysporum display morphological abnormalities such as hyphal swellings that are indicative of alterations in cell wall structure and can be partially restored by osmotic stabilizer. The mutants are unable to infect and colonize tomato plants or to grow invasively on tomato fruit tissue. They are also hypersensitive to plant antimicrobial defence compounds such as the tomato phytoanticipin alpha-tomatine or H2O2. Reintroduction of a functional chsV copy into the mutant restored the growth phenotype of the wild-type strain. These data suggest that F. oxysporum requires a specific class V chitin synthase for pathogenesis, most probably to protect itself against plant defence mechanisms. 
22177967	20111220	Ultrason_Sonochem	D016428 D013485 	Fermentation of rice hull by Aspergillus japonicus under ultrasonic pretreatment.	The application of ultrasound for treating rice hull used as the fermentation substrate for xylooligosaccharides production was investigated. Aspergillus japonicus CY6-1 was selected to produce cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes from untreated rice hull (RH) and rice hull treated with ultrasound (USRH-M). The hemicellulose yield was increased to 1.4-fold with ultrasound, and treatment time was greatly shortened from 24h to 1.5h at 80 °C and 300 W/28 kHz. The morphology of RH from various pretreatments was observed with field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM), revealing the surface structure of USRH-M smoother than that of RH. USRH-M was much easier to be utilized by fungi, to extend the stability of enzyme activity and to increase activities of CMCase, β-glucosidase, and xylanase compared with those of untreated RH. The final fermentative products were xylotetraose, xylohexaose, and higher molecular weight xylooligosaccharides, achieving xylohexaose yield for USRH-M 80% higher than that for RH group. 
1730736	19920125	J._Biol._Chem.	D003160 D016428 D013487 	Multiple regulatory elements control expression of the gene encoding the Saccharomyces cerevisiae cytochrome P450, lanosterol 14 alpha-demethylase (ERG11).	The major cytochrome P450 in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, lanosterol 14 alpha-demethylase (ERG11), catalyzes an essential reaction in the biosynthesis of ergosterol, the predominant sterol of yeast. Protein levels of this cytochrome P450 are known to be affected by carbon source, oxygen, and heme, as well as the growth state of the culture. We have determined that ERG11 message levels increase during growth on glucose, in the presence of heme, and during oxygen limiting growth conditions and, unexpectedly, during anaerobic growth. To determine the cis-acting regions responsible for regulation of expression of the ERG11 promoter under optimal conditions of fermentative growth, deletion analysis was performed using the Escherichia coli lacZ as a reporter gene. Two upstream activating sequences, UAS1 and UAS2, and an upstream repressor element, URS1, plus a second possible or cryptic repressor element, URS2, were identified in the ERG11 promoter. The HAP1 protein product apparently participates in activation from UAS1 but not from UAS2. Sequences resembling ERG11 UAS2 were identified in seven additional oxygen-regulated genes. Repression of ERG11 expression was dependent upon the ROX1 repressor and additional repressor(s) designated as Old (overexpression of lanosterol demethylase). These data indicate that ERG11 is a member of the hypoxic gene family which includes ANB1, COX5b, CYC7, and HEM13. Furthermore, NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR1), another component in this P450 system, appears to be coordinately regulated with ERG11. 
17758793	19790803	Science	D016428 	Prevention of fungal infection of plants by specific inhibition of cutinase.	Specific antibodies prepared against cutinase from Fusarium solani pisi and diisopropylfluorophosphate, a potent inhibitor of this enzyme, prevented infection of the host (pea epicotyl) by this organism, without affecting the viability of the spores. This finding shows that enzymatic penetration of cuticle is involved in pathogenesis. 
17967194	20071031	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 	Expression of human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor in Aspergillus niger.	Human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor (alpha1-PI), also known as antitrypsin, is the most abundant serine protease inhibitor (serpin) in plasma. Its deficiency is associated with development of progressive, ultimately fatal emphysema. Currently in the United States, alpha1-PI is available for replacement therapy as an FDA licensed plasma-derived (pd) product. However, the plasma source itself is limited; moreover, even with efficient viral inactivation steps used in manufacture of plasma products, the risk of contamination from emerging viruses may still exist. Therefore, recombinant alpha1-PI (r-alpha1-PI) could provide an attractive alternative. Although r-alpha1-PI has been produced in several hosts, protein stability in vitro and rapid clearance from the circulation have been major issues, primarily due to absent or altered glycosylation. We have explored the possibility of expressing the gene for human alpha1-PI in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger (A. niger), a system reported to be capable of providing more "mammalian-like" glycosylation patterns to secretable proteins than commonly used yeast hosts. Our expression strategy was based on fusion of alpha1-PI with a strongly expressed, secreted leader protein (glucoamylase G2), separated by dibasic processing site (N-V-I-S-K-R) that provides in vivo cleavage. SDS-PAGE, Western blot, ELISA, and alpha1-PI activity assays enabled us to select the transformant(s) secreting a biologically active glycosylated r-alpha1-PI with yields of up to 12 mg/L. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) analysis further confirmed that molecular mass of the r-alpha1-PI was similar to that of the pd-alpha1-PI. In vitro stability of the r-alpha1-PI from A. niger was tested in comparison with pd-alpha1-PI reference and non-glycosylated human r-alpha1-PI from E. coli. We examined the suitability of the filamentous fungus A. niger for the expression of the human gene for alpha1-PI, a medium size glycoprotein of high therapeutic value. The heterologous expression of the human gene for alpha1-PI in A. niger was successfully achieved to produce the secreted mature human r-alpha1-PI in A. niger as a biologically active glycosylated protein with improved stability and with yields of up to 12 mg/L in shake-flask growth. 
9020869	19970115	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	The beta-D-xylosidase of Trichoderma reesei is a multifunctional beta-D-xylan xylohydrolase.	An extracellular multifunctional beta-D-xylan xylohydrolase, previously described as beta-xylosidase, was purified from Trichoderma reesei RUT C-30 to physical homogeneity. The active enzyme was a 100 (+/-5) kDa glycosylated monomer that exhibited a pl of 4.7. Its activity was optimal at pH 4 and it was stable between pH 3 and 6. Its temperature-stability was moderate (70 degrees zero of activity remaining after 60 min at 50 degrees C) and optimal activity was observed at 60 degrees C. It is capable of hydrolysing beta-1.4-xylo-oligosaccharides [degree of polymerization (DP) 2-7], the apparent Vmax increasing with increasing chain length. The enzyme also attacked debranched beech-wood (Lenzing) xylan and 4-O-methylglucuronoxylan, forming xylose as the only end product. The K(m) for xylan was 0.7 g/l. For this reason we consider the enzyme to be a beta-D-xylan xylohydrolase. The enzyme also exhibits alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase activity on 4-nitrophenyl alpha-L-arabinofuranoside, and evidence is presented that this is not caused by an impurity in the enzyme preparation. The beta-D-xylan xylohydrolase exhibits glycosyltransferase activity with xylo-oligosaccharides and at high concentrations of 4-nitrophenyl beta-D-xylopyranoside (4-Nph-beta-Xyl). The enzyme hydrolyses beta-1, 4-linkages preferentially to beta-1,3-linkages, and beta-1,2-linked xylo-oligosaccharides are not hydrolysed at all. The enzyme liberates terminal beta-1,4-xylopyranose residues linked to a 2-O-substituted xylopyranose residue, but not that linked to a 3-O-substituted xylopyranose residue. The enzyme does not attack methyl, methyl 1-thio-benzyl or butyl l-thio-beta-D-xylopyranosides and 4-naphthyl, 2-naphthyl and phenyl beta-D-xylopyranosides. 
1288411	19920901	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Ethanol production from cellulose by coupled saccharification/fermentation using Saccharomyces cerevisiae and cellulase complex from Sclerotium rolfsii UV-8 mutant.	Using cellulase/hemicellulase complex of Sclerotium rolfsii UV-8 mutant and Saccharomyces cerevisiae for fermentation, the coupled saccharification/fermentation (CSF) of 15% AT-rice straw was carried out at 40 degrees C, pH 4.5 for the first 24 h and further incubation was performed at 30 degrees C for 72 h. Increasing the amount of cellulase activity from 3-12 IU FPA/g of substrate resulted in increased yields of ethanol from 1.5-3.6% in 96 h. It has been observed that the coupled system was advantageous over the two stage (separate hydrolysis/fermentation) system as it produced higher amounts of ethanol from cellulose (3.6% as compared to 2.3% ethanol from rice straw). 
9218776	19970601	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of a bacterial pectin acetyl esterase in Erwinia chrysanthemi 3937.	Erwinia chrysanthemi causes soft-rot diseases of various plants by enzymatic degradation of the pectin in plant cell walls. The structural complexity of pectin requires the combined action of several pectinases for its efficient breakdown. Three types of pectinases have so far been identified in E. chrysanthemi: two pectin methyl esterases (PemA, PemB), a polygalacturonase (PehX), and eight pectate lyases (PelA, PelB, PelC, PelD, PelE, PelL, PelZ, PelX). We report in this paper the analysis of a novel enzyme, the pectin acetyl esterase encoded by the paeY gene. No bacterial form of pectin acetyl esterases has been described previously, while plant tissues and some pectinolytic fungi were found to produce similar enzymes. The paeY gene is present in a cluster of five pectinase-encoding genes, pelA-pelE-pelD-paeY-pemA. The paeY open reading frame is 1650 bases long and encodes a 551-residue precursor protein of 60704Da, including a 25-amino-acid signal peptide. PaeY shares one region of homology with a rhamnogalacturonan acetyl esterase of Aspergillus aculeatus. To characterize the enzyme, the paeY gene was overexpressed and its protein product was purified. PaeY releases acetate from sugar-beet pectin and from various synthetic substrates. Moreover, the enzyme was shown to act in synergy with other pectinases. The de-esterification rate by PaeY increased after previous demethylation of the pectins by PemA and after depolymerization of the pectin by pectate lyases. In addition, the degradation of sugar-beet pectin by pectate lyases is favoured after the removal of methyl and acetyl groups by PemA and PaeY, respectively. The paeY gene was first identified on the basis of its regulation, which shares several characteristics with that of other pectinases. Analysis of the paeY transcription, using gene fusions, revealed that it is induced by pectic catabolic products and is affected by growth phase, oxygen limitation and catabolite repression. Regulation of paeY expression appears to be dependent on the KdgR repressor, which controls all the steps of pectin catabolism, and on the catabolite regulatory protein (CRP), the global activator of sugar catabolism. The contiguous pelD, paeY and pemA genes are transcribed as an operon from a promoter proximal to pelD which allows the regulation by KdgR and CRP. However, transcription can be interrupted at the intra-operon Rho-independent terminator situated between pelD and paeY. The paeY mutant inoculated into Saintpaulia plants was less invasive than the wild-type E. chrysanthemi strain 3937, demonstrating the important role of PaeY in the soft-rot disease. 
9617819	19980609	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	A new class II rice chitinase, Rcht2, whose induction by fungal elicitor is abolished by protein phosphatase 1 and 2A inhibitor.	Among the four classes of chitinase, a class II chitinase had not yet been reported for rice. We have isolated and characterized a class II acidic chitinase, Rcht2, from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Cheongcheongbyeo). The protein consists of a single polypeptide chain of 261 amino acid residues and includes a putative signal sequence of 29 amino acids at its N-terminus. It has a calculated molecular mass of 27,642 Da and an isoelectric point of 5.56. The Rcht2 chitinase lacks the cysteine-rich and hinge domains in the N-terminal region of the protein, which is the criterion for its classification as a class II chitinase. Comparison of the genomic and the cDNA sequence revealed that the coding region of Rcht2 consist of three exons of 301, 112, and 370 bp separated by two introns of 89 and 984 bp. In suspension-cultured rice cells, the transcript level of Rcht2 was dramatically increased by treatment with both glycol chitin and fungal elicitor. The application of protein phosphatase 1 and 2A inhibitors, calyculin A and okadaic acid, effectively abolished the induction of Rcht2 in response to fungal elicitor. In contrast, the activation of Rcht2 transcript was not inhibited by both cycloheximide and protein kinase inhibitors. These results demonstrate that protein dephosphorylation events play a crucial role in the elicitor-mediated induction of Rcht2 in rice cells, while de novo protein synthesis is not required for induction. 
19623928	20090724	Mycologia	D016428 D013485 	Identification of Indian pathogenic races of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceris with gene specific, ITS and random markers.	In this study we demonstrate the synergistic use of gene-specific markers, ITS-RFLP, ISSR and AFLP for distinguishing Indian F. oxysporum f. sp. ciceris races. We also report for the first time that F. oxysporum f. sp. ciceris race 3, a wilt pathogen of chickpea in India, is actually F. proliferatum based on phylogenetic analysis with EF-1alpha sequence data. F. oxysporum f. sp. ciceris races 1, 2 and 4 were easily distinguished from "race 3" (F. proliferatum) by PCR amplification with oligonucleotides designed from conserved regions of Hop78 transposon (Hop 78), cutinase (Cut), desaturase (Dst). F. oxysporum f. sp. ciceris race 4 was distinguished with the xylanase 3 (xyl3) gene by absence of amplification product only in this race. The Xyl3 amplified-DNA fragment isolated and sequenced from F. oxysporum f. sp. ciceris race 1 was similar to the F-xylanase (Xyl3) gene of F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici. A TELD motif, which is characteristic of the F-xylanases family, was detected within the deduced amino acid sequence of F. oxysporum f. sp. ciceris. Similarly the F. oxysporum f. sp. ciceris Hop78 DNA fragment, which identified "race 3" (F. proliferatum), was homologous to the Hop78 transposon of F. oxysporum f. sp. melonis, including the 100 amino acid conserved domain and the characteristic CCHC motif. The internal transcribed spacer region-restriction fragment length polymorphism (ITS-RFLP) approach along with intersimple sequence repeat (ISSR) method also differentiated "race 3" (F. proliferatum). Races 1 and 2 were identified by unique AFLP patterns. Sequence characterization of race-specific AFLP products revealed significant homologies of these sequences with metabolically important genes. 
7614556	19950301	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular and biochemical characterization of the hexokinase from the starch-utilizing yeast Schwanniomyces occidentalis.	Hexose-phosphorylating enzymes from the starch-utilizing yeast Schwanniomyces occidentalis were purified and two isoenzymes separated. The substrate pattern characterized one of these as a hexokinase phosphorylating glucose and fructose and the other as a glucokinase unable to phosphorylate fructose. The purified Schw. occidentalis hexokinase had a KM value of 0.98 mM for glucose and 9.3 mM for fructose. The hexokinase gene was cloned by cross hybridization with a probe from the Saccharomyces cerevisiae HXK2 gene. Deletion of Schw. occidentalis hexokinase by gene replacement yielded a mutant unable to grow on fructose as sole carbon source, but still growing on glucose. Deletion mutants of Schw. occidentalis hexokinase prevented glucose repression of invertase and maltase. Growth deficiencies and the defect of glucose repression of a S. cerevisiae hexokinase null mutant could be restored by heterologous expression of the Schw. occidentalis hexokinase. Moreover, the results clearly showed the existence of a separate glucokinase in Schw. occidentalis. 
17038119	20061014	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	An alpha-(1,4)-amylase is essential for alpha-(1,3)-glucan production and virulence in Histoplasma capsulatum.	Histoplasma capsulatum is a dimorphic fungus that causes respiratory and systemic disease and is capable of surviving and replicating within macrophages. The virulence of Histoplasma has been linked to cell wall alpha-(1,3)-glucan; however, the role of this polysaccharide during infection, its organization within the cell wall, and its synthesis and regulation remain poorly understood. To identify genes involved in the biosynthesis of alpha-(1,3)-glucan, we employed a forward genetics strategy to isolate physically marked mutants with reduced alpha-(1,3)-glucan. Insertional mutants were generated in a virulent strain of H. capsulatum by optimization of Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Approximately 90% of these mutants possessed single insertions with no chromosomal rearrangements or deletions in the host genome. To confirm the role and specificity of identified candidate genes, we phenocopied the disrupted locus by either RNA interference or targeted gene deletion. Our findings indicate alpha-(1,3)-glucan production requires the function of the AMY1 gene product, a novel protein with homology to the alpha-amylase family of glycosyl hydrolases, and UGP1, a UTP-glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase which synthesizes UDP-glucose monomers. Loss of AMY1 function attenuated the ability of Histoplasma to kill macrophages and to colonize murine lungs. 
22448043	20120327	MBio	D016428 	The chitin connection.	Chitin, a polymer of N-acetylglucosamine, is an essential component of the fungal cell wall. Chitosan, a deacetylated form of chitin, is also important in maintaining cell wall integrity and is essential for Cryptococcus neoformans virulence. In their article, Gilbert et al. [N. M. Gilbert, L. G. Baker, C. A. Specht, and J. K. Lodge, mBio 3(1):e00007-12, 2012] demonstrate that the enzyme responsible for chitosan synthesis, chitin deacetylase (CDA), is differentially attached to the cell membrane and wall. Bioactivity is localized to the cell membrane, where it is covalently linked via a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. Findings from this study significantly enhance our understanding of cryptococcal cell wall biology. Besides the role of chitin in supporting structural stability, chitin and host enzymes with chitinase activity have an important role in host defense and modifying the inflammatory response. Thus, chitin appears to provide a link between the fungus and host that involves both innate and adaptive immune responses. Recently, there has been increased attention to the role of chitinases in the pathogenesis of allergic inflammation, especially asthma. We review these findings and explore the possible connection between fungal infections, the induction of chitinases, and asthma. 
12597025	20030225	Indian_J._Exp._Biol.	D016428 	Solid state cultivation of Curvularia lunata for transformation of rifamycin B to S.	Biotransformation of rifamycin B to rifamycin S using two strains of C. lunata namely NCIM 716 and NMU grown on various solid substrates viz., grass, paper, jowar/wheat straw, bran and bagasse was studied. Almost complete biotransformation efficiency of rifamycin B at 0. 06 mM concentration was observed within 24 hr. Among these two strains, C. lunata NMU showed 90% of biotransformation and higher rate of cellulose utilization on solid substrates vis-à-vis reference strain. Cellulase activity of both strains was also studied for exoglucanase, endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase. Column bioreactor studies with bagasse revealed further improvement in biotransformation efficiency of C. lunata NMU. 
12226210	19960201	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Defense-Related Transcript Accumulation in Phaseolus vulgaris L. Colonized by the Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungus Glomus intraradices Schenck Smith.	Accumulation of mRNAs for the defense-related genes phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), chalcone synthase, chitinase (CHT), glucanase, and hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein were examined in roots of dark red kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L. cv Moncalm) colonized by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices Schenck & Smith. In three separate experiments the root length colonized ranged from 28 to 55% by 28 d after planting and inoculation. RNA blot analysis revealed little change in the accumulations of PAL, chalcone synthase, CHT, glucanase, and hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein transcripts from the 28-d mycorrhizal roots compared to the uninoculated controls. Normalizing the ratios of defense-related transcript accumulation against RNA pools regarded as being constitutively expressed, actin mRNA, 25S rRNA, and 18S rRNA, indicated that changes in the ratios of up to 20% occur according to the RNA pool used for normalization. In situ hybridizations of colonized roots using probes for PAL and CHT showed that accumulations of both transcripts occurred only in arbusculated cells. Both young, finely branched arbuscules and older, clumped arbuscules displayed PAL and CHT message accumulations. The PAL and CHT mRNA accumulations were greater in cortical cells containing young arbuscules than in cells containing clumped arbuscules. Intercellular hyphae and vesicles elicited no response. 
22068499	20111110	J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Biochemical properties of an extracellular trehalase from Malbranchea pulchella var. Sulfurea.	The thermophilic fungus Malbranchea pulchella var. sulfurea produced good amounts of extracellular trehalase activity when grown for long periods on starch, maltose or glucose as the main carbon source. Studies with young cultures suggested that the main role of the extracellular acid trehalase is utilizing trehalose as a carbon source. The specific activity of the purified enzyme in the presence of manganese (680 U/mg protein) was comparable to that of other thermophilic fungi enzymes, but many times higher than the values reported for trehalases from other microbial sources. The apparent molecular mass of the native enzyme was estimated to be 104 kDa by gel filtration and 52 kDa by SDS-PAGE, suggesting that the enzyme was composed by two subunits. The carbohydrate content of the purified enzyme was estimated to be 19 % and the pi was 3.5. The optimum pH and temperature were 5.0-5.5 and 55° C, respectively. The purified enzyme was stimulated by manganese and inhibited by calcium ions, and insensitive to ATP and ADP, and 1 mM silver ions. The apparent K(M) values for trehalose hydrolysis by the purified enzyme in the absence and presence of manganese chloride were 2.70 ± 0.29 and 2.58 ± 0.13 mM, respectively. Manganese ions affected only the apparent V(max), increasing the catalytic efficiency value by 9.2-fold. The results reported herein indicate that Malbranchea pulchella produces a trehalase with mixed biochemical properties, different from the conventional acid and neutral enzymes and also from trehalases from other thermophilic fungi. 
20140716	20100209	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Extracellular enzyme production in Metarhizium anisopliae isolates.	Extracellular enzymes produced by Metarhizium anisopliae are believed to play a key role in cuticle hydrolysis. The in-vitro production of cuticle-degrading enzymes, such as chitinase, proteinase, caseinase, lipase and amylase in fourteen isolates of M. anisopliae exhibited significant natural isolate variability. The isolates were also evaluated for chitinase and proteinase enzyme assays in order to quantify the enzyme production. The growth characteristics and colony morphology of the isolates showed variation and few isolates formed sectors and the colonies were either fluffy or powdery. Among the isolates studied, isolate UM2 was found to show good consistence with the results on enzyme measurements as well as the growth characteristics and colony morphology. Such characterization of isolate variability could rationally be used in the selection of isolates for the production of improved myco-pesticides in the integrated pest management programs. 
8146192	19940329	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Three-dimensional structures of two plant beta-glucan endohydrolases with distinct substrate specificities.	The three-dimensional structures of (1-->3)-beta-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.39) isoenzyme GII and (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.73) isoenzyme EII from barley have been determined by x-ray crystallography at 2.2- to 2.3-A resolution. The two classes of polysaccharide endohydrolase differ in their substrate specificity and function. Thus, the (1-->3)-beta-glucanases, which are classified amongst the plant "pathogenesis-related proteins," can hydrolyze (1-->3)- and (1-->3,1-->6)-beta-glucans of fungal cell walls and may therefore contribute to plant defense strategies, while the (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucanases function in plant cell wall hydrolysis during mobilization of the endosperm in germinating grain or during the growth of vegetative tissues. Both enzymes are alpha/beta-barrel structures. The catalytic amino acid residues are located within deep grooves which extend across the enzymes and which probably bind the substrates. Because the polypeptide backbones of the two enzymes are structurally very similar, the differences in their substrate specificities, and hence their widely divergent functions, have been acquired primarily by amino acid substitutions within the groove. 
20173066	20100223	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Promotion of efficient Saccharification of crystalline cellulose by Aspergillus fumigatus Swo1.	Swollenin is a protein from Trichoderma reesei that has a unique activity for disrupting cellulosic materials, and it has sequence similarity to expansins, plant cell wall proteins that have a loosening effect that leads to cell wall enlargement. In this study we cloned a gene encoding a swollenin-like protein, Swo1, from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus, and designated the gene Afswo1. AfSwo1 has a bimodular structure composed of a carbohydrate-binding module family 1 (CBM1) domain and a plant expansin-like domain. AfSwo1 was produced using Aspergillus oryzae for heterologous expression and was easily isolated by cellulose-affinity chromatography. AfSwo1 exhibited weak endoglucanase activity toward carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) and bound not only to crystalline cellulose Avicel but also to chitin, while showing no detectable affinity to xylan. Treatment by AfSwo1 caused disruption of Avicel into smaller particles without any detectable reducing sugar. Furthermore, simultaneous incubation of AfSwo1 with a cellulase mixture facilitated saccharification of Avicel. Our results provide a novel approach for efficient bioconversion of crystalline cellulose into glucose by use of the cellulose-disrupting protein AfSwo1. 
7693124	19930801	Biochem._Mol._Biol._Int.	D016428 D013485 	Carboxymethylcellulase from Lenzites saepiaria, a brown-rotter.	Three wood-rotting fungi namely, Lenzites saepiaria, Polyporus xeranticus and Trametes gibbosa, were screened as cellulose-degraders from 20 different genera of both brown and white-rotters of Polyporaceae on the basis of their potential to degrade carboxymethylcellulose. The utilization of different carbon sources in the growth medium was studied with these fungi for identification of enzymes involved in saccharification. Carboxymethylcellulase and beta-glucosidase were identified as the two major enzymes involved in this process. Extracellular carboxymethylcellulase from L. saepiaria was purified to homogeneity and the enzyme partially characterized. 
22238011	20120113	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	ANCUT2, an extracellular cutinase from Aspergillus nidulans induced by olive oil.	Cutinases are versatile carboxylic ester hydrolases with great potential in many biocatalytic processes, including biodiesel production. Genome sequence analysis of the model organism Aspergillus nidulans reveals four genes encoding putative cutinases. In this work, we purified and identified for the first time a cutinase (ANCUT2) produced by A. nidulans. ANCUT2 is a 29-kDa protein which consists of 255 amino acid residues. Comparison of the amino acid sequence of ANCUT2 with other microbial cutinase sequences revealed a high degree of homology with other fungal cutinases as well as new features, which include a serine-rich region and conserved cysteines. Cutinase production with different lipidic and carbon sources was also explored. Enzyme activity was induced by olive oil and some triacylglycerides and fatty acids, whereas it was repressed by glucose (1%) and other sugars. In some conditions, a 22-kDa post-translational processing product was also detected. The cutinase nature of the enzyme was confirmed after degradation of apple cutin. 
1731612	19920201	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of two basic beta-1,3-glucanases induced in Colletotrichum lindemuthianum-infected bean seedlings.	Two beta-1,3-glucanases which are rapidly induced in the incompatible interaction between bean (cv. Processor) and Colletotrichum lindemuthianum race beta were purified to homogeneity. Characterization of the two enzymes, GE1 and GE2, showed that they both had a basic isolectric point and a similar molecular weight (36,500 for GE1 and 36,000 for GE2), but differed in their pH optimum, thermal stability, and specific activity. GE2 was present in higher amounts but was shown to be less active than GE1 against laminarin and fungal cell walls isolated from race beta of the fungus. Both enzymes were specific for beta-1,3 linkages and showed a strict endolytic mode of action. Further characterization of GE2 was achieved by amino acid sequence analysis of tryptic peptides; the degree of homology shared with other basic beta-1,3-glucanases depended on the plant source. A time-course study showed that GE1 and GE2 were increased during infection. They were also induced by fungal elicitors, thereby indicating that they originate from the host. 
23729871	20130605	Indian_J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Biological pretreatment of lignocellulosic substrates for enhanced delignification and enzymatic digestibility.	Sheer enormity of lignocellulosics makes them potential feedstock for biofuel production but, their conversion into fermentable sugars is a major hurdle. They have to be pretreated physically, chemically, or biologically to be used by fermenting organisms for production of ethanol. Each lignocellulosic substrate is a complex mix of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin, bound in a matrix. While cellulose and hemicellulose yield fermentable sugars, lignin is the most recalcitrant polymer, consisting of phenyl-propanoid units. Many microorganisms in nature are able to attack and degrade lignin, thus making access to cellulose easy. Such organisms are abundantly found in forest leaf litter/composts and especially include the wood rotting fungi, actinomycetes and bacteria. These microorganisms possess enzyme systems to attack, depolymerize and degrade the polymers in lignocellulosic substrates. Current pretreatment research is targeted towards developing processes which are mild, economical and environment friendly facilitating subsequent saccharification of cellulose and its fermentation to ethanol. Besides being the critical step, pretreatment is also cost intensive. Biological treatments with white rot fungi and Streptomyces have been studied for delignification of pulp, increasing digestibility of lignocellulosics for animal feed and for bioremediation of paper mill effluents. Such lignocellulolytic organisms can prove extremely useful in production of bioethanol when used for removal of lignin from lignocellulosic substrate and also for cellulase production. Our studies on treatment of hardwood and softwood residues with Streptomyces griseus isolated from leaf litter showed that it enhanced the mild alkaline solubilisation of lignins and also produced high levels of the cellulase complex when growing on wood substrates. Lignin loss (Klason lignin) observed was 10.5 and 23.5% in case of soft wood and hard wood, respectively. Thus, biological pretreatment process for lignocellulosic substrate using lignolytic organisms such as actinomycetes and white rot fungi can be developed for facilitating efficient enzymatic digestibility of cellulose. 
23536251	20130329	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	A novel multifunctional α-amylase from the thermophilic fungus Malbranchea cinnamomea: biochemical characterization and three-dimensional structure.	A novel α-amylase (McAmyA) from the thermophilic fungus, Malbranchea cinnamomea was purified, characterized and crystallized in the present study. McAmyA was purified to apparent homogeneity with a molecular mass of 60.3 kDa on SDS-PAGE. The enzyme exhibited maximal activity at pH 6.5 and was stable within pH 5.0-10.0. It was most active at 65 °C and was stable up to 50 °C. McAmyA was capable of hydrolyzing amylose, starch, amylopectin, pullulan, cyclodextrins and maltooligosaccharides. The full-length cDNA of an α-amylase gene (McAmyA) from the strain was cloned. McAmyA consisted of a 1,476-bp open reading frame encoding 492 amino acids. It displayed the highest amino acid sequence homology (less than 60 %) with the reported α-amylases. The crystal structure of McAmyA was solved at a resolution of 2.25 Å (PDB code 3VM7). The overall structure of McAmyA reveals three domains with ten α helices and 14 β strands, and the putative catalytic residues are positioned at domain A with somewhat different secondary structural circumstances compared with typical α-amylases. 
17107764	20061117	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Cloning, genomic organisation and mRNA expression of a pectin lyase gene from a mutant strain of Penicillium occitanis.	The regulatory cis elements of fungal pectinases are well studied in Aspergillus genera but little is known in other fungal species. A genomic bank from Penicillium occitanis fungus is constructed and screened by previously isolated cDNA probe of a pectin lyase. From several isolated clones, the nucleotide sequence of the pectin lyase gene was completed and led to the identification of introns and promoter-terminator regions. A streaking future was found in pnl gene of P. occitanis: it exhibits the highest nucleotide homology with the pnlA of Aspergillus niger but the positions of its 4 introns is completely identical to that of A. niger pnlB gene. In addition to the determination of transcription start site, the promoter sequence from the pnl gene was analysed. It showed the conservation of known consensus sequences -CreA, Hap2-3-4, PacC ...-, and the existence of a particular sequence -CCTGA- which is similar to that already found to be specific of pectinolytic gene in Aspergillus, CCCTGA. This result suggests that the corresponding regulatory trans-acting factor should be the same as in Aspergillus. 
10422261	19990728	FEMS_Microbiol._Rev.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Molecular and biotechnological aspects of xylanases.	Hemicellulolytic microorganisms play a significant role in nature by recycling hemicellulose, one of the main components of plant polysaccharides. Xylanases (EC 3.2.1.8) catalyze the hydrolysis of xylan, the major constituent of hemicellulose. The use of these enzymes could greatly improve the overall economics of processing lignocellulosic materials for the generation of liquid fuels and chemicals. Recently cellulase-free xylanases have received great attention in the development of environmentally friendly technologies in the paper and pulp industry. In microorganisms that produce xylanases low molecular mass fragments of xylan and their positional isomers play a key role in regulating its biosynthesis. Xylanase and cellulase production appear to be regulated separately, although the pleiotropy of mutations, which causes the elimination of both genes, suggests some linkage in the synthesis of the two enzymes. Xylanases are found in a cornucopia of organisms and the genes encoding them have been cloned in homologous and heterologous hosts with the objectives of overproducing the enzyme and altering its properties to suit commercial applications. Sequence analyses of xylanases have revealed distinct catalytic and cellulose binding domains, with a separate non-catalytic domain that has been reported to confer enhanced thermostability in some xylanases. Analyses of three-dimensional structures and the properties of mutants have revealed the involvement of specific tyrosine and tryptophan residues in the substrate binding site and of glutamate and aspartate residues in the catalytic mechanism. Many lines of evidence suggest that xylanases operate via a double displacement mechanism in which the anomeric configuration is retained, although some of the enzymes catalyze single displacement reactions with inversion of configuration. Based on a dendrogram obtained from amino acid sequence similarities the evolutionary relationship between xylanases is assessed. In addition the properties of xylanases from extremophilic organisms have been evaluated in terms of biotechnological applications. 
6437	19750801	J._Biochem.	D016428 	Enzymatic studies on a cellulase system of Trichoderma viride. III. Transglycosylation properties of two cellulase components of random type.	Two highly purified cellulases [EC 3.2.1.4], II-A, and II-B, were obtained from the cellulase system of Trichoderma viride. Both cellulases split cellopentaose retaining the beta-configuration of the anomeric carbon atoms in the hydrolysis products at both pH 3.5 and 5.0. The Km values of cellulases II-A and II-B for cellotetraose were different, but their Vmax values were similar and those for cellooligosaccharides increased in parallel with chain length. Both cellulases produced predominantly cellobiose and glucose from various cellulosic substrates as well as from higher cellooligosaccharides. Cellulase II-A preferentially attacked the holoside linkage of rho-nitrophenyl beta-D-cellobioside, whereas cellulase II-B attacked mainly the aglycone linkage of this cellobioside. Both cellulases were found to catalyze the synthesis of cellotriose from rho-nitrophenyl beta-D-cellobioside by transfer of a glucosyl residue, possibly to cellobiose produced in the reaction mixture. They were also found to catalyze the rapid synthesis of cellotetraose from cellobiose, with accompanying formation of cellotriose and glucose, which seemed to be produced by secondary random hydrolysis of the cellotetraose produced. The capacity to synthesize cellotetraose from cellobiose appeared to be greater with cellulase II-B than with cellulase II-A. 
7592838	19951103	J._Biol._Chem.	D003160 D016428 	Purification and characterization of chitin deacetylase from Colletotrichum lindemuthianum.	Chitin deacetylase (EC 3.5.1.41), the enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of acetamido groups of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine in chitin, has been purified to homogeneity from the culture filtrate of the fungus Colletotrichum lindemuthianum and further characterized. The enzyme is a glycoprotein, and its apparent molecular mass was determined to be approximately 150 kDa. The glycosylation pattern of the enzyme is consistent with a mixture of N-linked glycans including oligomannosidic hybrid and/or complex type, and its carbohydrate content is approximately 67% by weight. Chitin deacetylase is active on several chitinous substrates and chitin derivatives, is not considerably inhibited by carboxylic acids, especially acetic acid, and exhibits a remarkable thermostability. The enzyme requires at least two N-acetyl-D-glucosamine residues (chitobiose) for catalysis. When glycol chitin (a water-soluble chitin derivative) was used as substrate, the optimum temperature for enzyme activity was determined to be 50 degrees C, and the optimum pH was approximately 8.5. 
2112428	19900615	Cell	D016428 D013485 	NSP1: a yeast nuclear envelope protein localized at the nuclear pores exerts its essential function by its carboxy-terminal domain.	NSP1 is located at the nuclear periphery in yeast and is essential for cell growth. Employing immunoelectron microscopy on yeast cells, we show that NSP1 is located at the nuclear pores. The molecular analysis of the NSP1 protein points to a two domain model: a nonessential domain (the first 603 amino acids) composed of repetitive sequences common to other nuclear proteins and an essential, carboxy-terminal domain (residues 604-823) mediating the vital function of NSP1. The NSP1 carboxy-terminal domain, which shows a heptad repeat organization, affected the correct location of two nuclear proteins: site-specific amino acid substitutions within a predicted alpha-helical structure of this domain caused a temperature-sensitive growth arrest at 37 degrees C and the appearance of NSP1 and NOP1, a nucleolar protein, in the cytosol. 
10424462	19990729	Electrophoresis	D016428 D013485 	Analytical titration curves of glycosyl hydrolase Cel45 by combined isoelectric focusing-electrophoresis.	The electrical charge of endocellulase Cel45-core has been determined by combined isoelectric focusing-electrophoresis in the range of pH 3-9. In order to transform electrophoretic mobility to absolute electrical charge value, several corrections were applied: the frictional coefficient theoretically calculated from the molecular dimensions depends on porous gel structure and on the ionic strength of the solution. By comparing the curve calculated according to the Linderstrom-Lang equation, the number of charged electrical groups exposed to the solvent and their apparent ionization constants, pK(o)i, can be determined. Furthermore, the macromolecule structure can be assumed not to change in this pH range. This finding is necessary to understand the structure and the electrical properties of the entire Cel45 molecule. 
17078553	20061103	J_Environ_Sci_(China)	D016428 D016441 	Field released transgenic papaya effect on soil microbial communities and enzyme activities.	Soil properties, microbial communities and enzyme activities were studied in soil amended with replicase (RP)-transgenic or non-transgenic papaya under field conditions. Compared with non-transgenic papaya, significant differences (P<0.05) were observed in total nitrogen in soils grown with transgenic papaya. There were also significant differences (P<0.05) in the total number of colony forming units (CFUs) of bacteria, actinomycetes and fungi between soils amended with RP-transgenic plants and non-transgenic plants. Compared with non-transgenic papaya, the total CFUs of bacteria, actinomycetes and fungi in soil with transgenic papaya increased by 0.43-1.1, 0.21-0.80 and 0.46-0.73 times respectively. Significantly higher (P<0.05) CFUs of bacteria, actinomycetes and fungi resistant to kanamycin (Km) were obtained in soils with RP-transgenic papaya than those with non-transgenic papaya in all concentrations of Km. Higher resistance quotients for Kmr (kanamycin resistant) bacteria, actinomycetes and fungi were found in soil planted with RP-transgenic papaya, and the resistance quotients for Kmr bacteria, actinomycetes and fungi in soils with transgenic papaya increased 1.6-4.46, 0.63-2.5 and 0.75-2.30 times. RP-transgenic papaya and non-transgenic papaya produced significantly different enzyme activities in arylsulfatase (5.4-5.9x), polyphenol oxidase (0.7-1.4x), invertase (0.5-0.79x), cellulase (0.23-0.35x) and phosphodiesterase (0.16-0.2x). The former three soil enzymes appeared to be more sensitive to the transgenic papaya than the others, and could be useful parameters in assessing the effects of transgenic papaya. Transgenic papaya could alter soil chemical properties, enzyme activities and microbial communities. 
16630270	20060425	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparison of transcription of multiple genes at three developmental stages of the plant pathogen Sclerotinia sclerotiorum.	The ascomycete Sclerotinia sclerotiorum is a plant pathogen with a very broad host range. In order to identify and characterize genes involved in S. sclerotiorum infection of Brassica napus (canola), expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were examined from libraries prepared from three tissues: complex appressorium (infection cushions), mycelia grown on agar and lesions formed on leaves of B. napus. A high proportion of genes (68%) had not been previously reported for S. sclerotiorum in public gene or EST databases. The types of novel genes identified in the infection cushion library highlights the functional specificity of these structures and similarities to appressoria in other fungal pathogens. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to analyse tissue specificity and timing of transcription of genes with best matches to MAS3 (appressoria-associated protein from Magnaporthe grisea), cellobiohydrolase I, oxaloacetate acetylhydrolase, metallothionein, pisatin demethylase, and an unknown gene with orthologs in fungal pathogens but not in saprophytic fungi. 
24085297	20131003	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Two major facilitator superfamily sugar transporters from Trichoderma reesei and their roles in induction of cellulase biosynthesis.	Proper perception of the extracellular insoluble cellulose is key to initiating the rapid synthesis of cellulases by cellulolytic Trichoderma reesei. Uptake of soluble oligosaccharides derived from cellulose hydrolysis represents a potential point of control in the induced cascade. In this study, we identified a major facilitator superfamily sugar transporter Stp1 capable of transporting cellobiose by reconstructing a cellobiose assimilation system in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The absence of Stp1 in T. reesei resulted in differential cellulolytic response to Avicel versus cellobiose. Transcriptional profiling revealed a different expression profile in the Δstp1 strain from that of wild-type strain in response to Avicel and demonstrated that Stp1 somehow repressed induction of the bulk of major cellulase and hemicellulose genes. Two other putative major facilitator superfamily sugar transporters were, however, up-regulated in the profiling. Deletion of one of them identified Crt1 that was required for growth and enzymatic activity on cellulose or lactose, but was not required for growth or hemicellulase activity on xylan. The essential role of Crt1 in cellulase induction did not seem to rely on its transporting activity because the overall uptake of cellobiose or sophorose by T. reesei was not compromised in the absence of Crt1. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that orthologs of Crt1 exist in the genomes of many filamentous ascomycete fungi capable of degrading cellulose. These data thus shed new light on the mechanism by which T. reesei senses and transmits the cellulose signal and offers potential strategies for strain improvement.  
15612820	20041223	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Vacuum infusion of plant or fungal pectinmethylesterase and calcium affects the texture and structure of eggplant.	The effect of vacuum infusion on eggplant quality of a commercial fungal (Aspergillus niger) and citrus pectinmethylesterase (PME) with calcium chloride (4000 ppm) was investigated after processing and during storage. Firmness of infused eggplants using fungal or citrus PME was significantly increased compared to controls (fresh noninfused and water-infused control) after processing and during storage for 7 days at 4 degrees C. Activity of fungal PME-infused eggplant increased almost 32 times, whereas activity of eggplant infused with Marsh grapefruit PME increased 2-fold. Degree of esterification of pectin of eggplants infused with fungal or citrus PME decreased slightly. Cryo-SEM showed that samples treated with fungal PME/ CaCl2 displayed more integrity among cells as compared with water-infused control. The change of pectin in the cell wall was visualized using monoclonal antibodies JIM5 (low-esterified pectin) and JIM7 (high-esterified pectin). JIM5 showed more binding than JIM7 with the cell walls of eggplant tissues from fungal PME/ CaCl2 treatment. 
19840179	20091021	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Endoglucanase activities and growth of marine-derived fungi isolated from the sponge Haliclona simulans.	The conversion of cheap cellulosic biomass to more easily fermentable sugars requires the use of costly cellulases. We have isolated a series of marine sponge-derived fungi and screened these for cellulolytic activity to determine the potential of this unique environmental niche as a source of novel cellulase activities. Fungi were isolated from the marine sponge Haliclona simulans. Phylogenetic analysis of these and other fungi previously isolated from H. simulans showed fungi from three phyla with very few duplicate species. Cellulase activities were determined using plate-based assays using different media and sea water concentrations while extracellular cellulase activities were determined using 3,5-dinitrosalicylic acid (DNSA)-based assays. Total and specific cellulase activities were determined using a range of incubation temperatures and compared to those for the cellulase overproducing mutant Hypocrea jecorina QM9414. Several of the strains assayed produced total or relative endoglucanase activities that were higher than H. jecorina, particularly at lower reaction temperatures. Marine sponges harbour diverse fungal species and these fungi are a good source of endoglucanase activities. Analysis of the extracellular endoglucanase activities revealed that some of the marine-derived fungi produced high endoglucanase activities that were especially active at lower temperatures. Marine-derived fungi associated with coastal marine sponges are a novel source of highly active endoglucanases with significant activity at low temperatures and could be a source of novel cellulase activities. 
23712903	20130529	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Influence of sclerotia formation on ligninolytic enzyme production in Morchella crassipes.	Morels are wild edible ascomycetous mushrooms that are highly prized because of their medicinal and nutritional qualities. Ligninolytic enzymes are considered as one of the most important enzymes in fungi due to their involvement in fruiting body formation during artificial cultivation on different substrates. In the life cycle of morels, sclerotia are the intermediate stage to form a fruiting body from mycelia. We have studied the production of ligninolytic enzymes by Morchella crassipes MR8 growing on different substrates and during sclerotia formation. This fungus is able to produce ligninolytic enzymes such as laccase (Lac), lignin peroxidase (LiP), and manganese-dependent peroxidase (MnP) when grown on different substrates. Maximum Lac activity was observed when grown in wheat grains whereas maximum activities of MnP and LiP were observed when grown in rice straw. Laccase enzyme was produced in high titers during sclerotia formation and maturation when grown in combinations of soil and substrates. A large number of sclerotia was observed in soil and wheat grains, along with high titers of laccase. Cellulase activity was observed to be constant during sclerotia formation and maturation. The present study results suggest that laccase enzyme might play an important role in sclerotia formation in morels.  
22133444	20111203	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	The ferulic acid esterases of Chrysosporium lucknowense C1: purification, characterization and their potential application in biorefinery.	Three ferulic acid esterases from the filamentous fungus Chrysosporium lucknowense C1 were purified and characterized. The enzymes were most active at neutral pH and temperatures up to 45 °C. All enzymes released ferulic acid and p-coumaric acid from a soluble corn fibre fraction. Ferulic acid esterases FaeA1 and FaeA2 could also release complex dehydrodiferulic acids and dehydrotriferulic acids from corn fibre oligomers, but released only 20% of all ferulic acid present in sugar beet pectin oligomers. Ferulic acid esterase FaeB2 released almost no complex ferulic acid oligomers from corn fibre oligomers, but 60% of all ferulic acid from sugar beet pectin oligomers. The ferulic acid esterases were classified based on both, sequence similarity and their activities toward synthetic substrates. The type A ferulic acid esterases FaeA1 and FaeA2 are the first members of the phylogenetic subfamily 5 to be biochemically characterized. Type B ferulic acid esterase FaeB2 is a member of subfamily 6. 
20143229	20100210	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Main airborne Ascomycota spores: characterization by culture, spore morphology, ribosomal DNA sequences and enzymatic analysis.	The aim of this work was to identify the main allergy-related Ascomycetes fungal spores present in the atmosphere of Porto, using different and complementary techniques. The atmospheric sampling, performed in the atmosphere of Porto (Portugal) from August 2006 to July 2008, indicated Cladosporium, Penicillium, Aspergillus and Alternaria as the main fungal spore taxa. Alternaria and Cladosporium peaks were registered during summer. Aspergillus and Penicillium highest values were registered from late winter to early spring. Additionally, the Andersen sampler allowed the culture and isolation of the collected viable spores subsequently used for different identification approaches. The internal-transcribed spacer region of the nuclear ribosomal repeat unit sequences of airborne Ascomycetes fungi isolates revealed 11 taxonomically related fungal species. Among the identified taxa, Penicillum and Aspergillus presented the highest diversity, while only one species of Cladosporium and Alternaria, respectively, were identified. All selected fungal spore taxa possessed phosphatase, esterase, leucine arylamidase and beta-glucosidase enzymatic activity, while none had lipase, cystine arylamidase, trypsin or beta-glucuronidase activity. The association between the spore cell wall morphology, DNA-based techniques and enzymatic activity approaches allowed a more reliable identification procedure of the airborne Ascomycota fungal spores. 
18566809	20080621	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Real-time quantitative analysis of carbon catabolite derepression of cellulolytic genes expressed in the basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	Production of cellulolytic enzymes, such as cellobiohydrolases (CBH) and cellobiose dehydrogenase (CDH), by the basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium is significantly repressed in glucose-containing media; this is known as carbon catabolite repression. We have analyzed the glucose concentration dependence of transcript numbers of the cellulolytic genes (cel6A, cel7D, and cdh) and beta-glucosidase gene (bgl3A) by means of real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to investigate the roll of carbon catabolite derepression in these gene expression. When the mycelium of P. chrysosporium grown in glucose culture was transferred to media containing various concentrations of glucose (0-5,000 microM), the expression levels of cel6A, cel7D, and cdh were drastically influenced by glucose, whereas no significant change was observed in bgl3A. The numbers of transcripts of cel6A, cel7D, and cdh increased exponentially during incubation for 6 h in the culture without glucose, and the rates of increase were 2.1 times per hour for cel6A transcripts and 2.7 times per hour for cel7D transcripts. Moreover, derepression of cel6A and cel7D was delayed (by 1.6 and 0.6 h, respectively) when the culture contained 50 microM glucose compared with that in the absence of glucose, suggesting that the promoter activities of cel7D and cel6A are distinct under conditions of carbon catabolite derepression. 
21784921	20110726	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of two distinct glycosyl hydrolase family 78 alpha-L-rhamnosidases from Pediococcus acidilactici.	α-L-Rhamnosidases play an important role in the hydrolysis of glycosylated aroma compounds (especially terpenes) from wine. Although several authors have demonstrated the enological importance of fungal rhamnosidases, the information on bacterial enzymes in this context is still limited. In order to fill this important gap, two putative rhamnosidase genes (ram and ram2) from Pediococcus acidilactici DSM 20284 were heterologously expressed, and the respective gene products were characterized. In combination with a bacterial β-glucosidase, both enzymes released the monoterpenes linalool and cis-linalool oxide from a muscat wine extract under ideal conditions. Additionally, Ram could release significant amounts of geraniol and citronellol/nerol. Nevertheless, the potential enological value of these enzymes is limited by the strong negative effects of acidity and ethanol on the activities of Ram and Ram2. Therefore, a direct application in winemaking seems unlikely. Although both enzymes are members of the same glycosyl hydrolase family (GH 78), our results clearly suggest the distinct functionalities of Ram and Ram2, probably representing two subclasses within GH 78: Ram could efficiently hydrolyze only the synthetic substrate p-nitrophenyl-α-L-rhamnopyranoside (V(max) = 243 U mg(-1)). In contrast, Ram2 displayed considerable specificity toward hesperidin (V(max) = 34 U mg(-1)) and, especially, rutinose (V(max) = 1,200 U mg(-1)), a disaccharide composed of glucose and rhamnose. Both enzymes were unable to hydrolyze the flavanone glycoside naringin. Interestingly, both enzymes displayed indications of positive substrate cooperativity. This study presents detailed kinetic data on two novel rhamnosidases, which could be relevant for the further study of bacterial glycosidases. 
7639733	19950804	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Kinetic studies on cyclophellitol analogues--mechanism-based inactivators.	The (1R,6S)- and (1R,2S,6S)-diastereoisomers of cyclophellitol were found to be effective irreversible inactivators of alpha-D-glucosidase and alpha-D-mannosidase, respectively. The (1R,6S)-diastereoisomer inactivates brewers yeast alpha-D-glucosidase according to pseudo-first order kinetics with inactivation constants of Ki = 26.9 microM, ki = 0.401 min-1 while the (1R,2S,6S)-diastereoisomer inactivates jack beans alpha-D-mannosidase in a similar manner with Ki = 120 microM, ki = 2.85 min-1. The irreversibility of these compounds was evidenced by the lack of reactivation upon dialysis of the inactivated enzyme. 
20549203	20100616	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulase production on glucose-based media by the UV-irradiated mutants of Trichoderma reesei.	From 22,791 mutants of a cellulase hyper-producing strain of Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina), ATCC66589, as the parent, we selected two mutants, M2-1 and M3-1, that produce cellulases in media containing both cellulose and glucose. The mutation enabled the mutants to produce cellulases, which were measured as p-nitrophenyl beta-D: -lactopyranoside-hydrolyzing activities, in media with glucose as a sole carbon source, although M2-1 exhibited different sensitivities to glucose from M3-1. When the mutants were grown for 8 days on a medium with cellulose as a sole carbon source, the filter-paper-degrading activities (FPAs) per gram of cellulose were 257 and 281 U for M2-1 and M3-1, respectively, values that were 1.1-1.2 times higher than that of the parental strain. Cellulase production by M2-1 and M3-1 on a medium with a continuously fed mixture of glucose and cellobiose resulted in 214 and 210 U of FPA/gram carbon sources, respectively, whereas less efficient production (140 U of FPA/gram carbon source) was achieved by the parental strain. The improved cellulase productivity of the mutants allows us to use glucose as a carbon source for efficient on-site production of cellulases with quality/quantity-controlled feeding of soluble carbon sources and inducers. 
22705517	20120619	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Optimization of liquid fermentation of microbial consortium WSD-5 followed by saccharification and acidification of wheat straw.	The microbial consortium WSD-5 is composed of bacteria and fungi, and the cooperation and symbiosis of the contained microbes enhance the degradation ability of WSD-5. Experiment results showed that the highest cellulase and hemicellulase were obtained when ventilation volume was 4 L/min, stirring rate was 0 rpm, and substrate loading rate was 3%. After 6 days of cultivation, a 67.60% loss in wheat straw dry weight was observed. The crude enzyme secreted from WSD-5 after optimization was evaluated by experiments of saccharification and acidification. The maximum concentration of reducing sugars was 3254 mg/L after 48 h saccharification. The concentration of sCOD peaked on day 2 with a value of 4345 mg/L during acidification, and the biogas yield and methane yield were 22.3% and 32.3% higher than un-acidified samples. This study is the first attempt to explore both the saccharification and the acidification ability of crude enzymes secreted by microbial consortium. 
4767296	19731201	Appl_Microbiol	D016428 	Virus particles from conidia of Penicillium species.	Virus particles and their component double-stranded ribonucleic acid (dsRNA) have been isolated from conidia and mycelia of certain Penicillium species. The conidia and mycelia of P. stoloniferum NRRL 5267 contained 75 and 85 mug of dsRNA/g (dry weight), respectively. Of the total dsRNA released from NRRL 5267 conidia, 10% was nonencapsulated. Conidia of P. brevi-compactum NRRL 5260 and P. chrysogenum Q-176 contained 2 and 120 mug of dsRNA/g (dry weight), respectively, whereas mycelium from the two species contained 3 and 95 mug of dsRNA/g (dry weight), respectively. No viruses were isolated from conidia or mycelia of P. stoloniferum NRRL 859. A method is described for disruption of both conidia and mycelia. The technique facilitates the isolation and characterization of fungal viruses and their component dsRNA and also potentiates surveying of fungal isolates for the presence of virus. 
17651155	20070727	Clin._Exp._Allergy	D016430 D016428 D013485 	Identification of novel allergens of Aspergillus fumigatus using immunoproteomics approach.	Approximately 20% of the world's asthmatics are suffering from Aspergillus fumigatus (Afu)-induced allergies. The characterization of specific IgE-inducing allergens in allergic aspergillosis patients is fundamental for clinical diagnosis and for immunotherapy. Immunoproteomics combined with mass spectrometric analysis was used to identify proteins of third-week culture filtrate (3wcf) potentially responsible for Afu-specific IgE immunoreactivity, using pooled sera from Afu-sensitized asthmatics. Their allergenic potential was also tested against patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA), by two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis immunoblotting of 3wcf proteins with individual sera from such patients. This helped us to establish a set of candidate allergens, which could be explored further for diagnostic application in allergic aspergillosis asthmatics including ABPA. Peptide mass fingerprint using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and/or de novo sequencing by MS/MS analysis of the protein spots from 2-D gels led to the identification of a total of 16 allergens of Afu. Eleven of them are being reported as allergens for the first time and five had been reported earlier. Putative isoforms of the proteins Asp f 13 and chitosanase have been observed for the first time. When studied for reactivity of these proteins among patients with ABPA using their individual sera, these patients exhibited sensitization although the pattern was varying. Taken together, these proteins could thus be considered as potential allergens even among patients with ABPA. Three of these proteins viz. the hypothetical protein (# spot no. 5), extracellular arabinase (# spot no. 6) and chitosanase (# spot no. 11) could be major allergens with specific IgE immunoreactivity with six out of eight patients' sera. The immunoproteomic approach applied to the analysis of culture filtrate proteins resulted in the identification of several candidate allergens, many of them novel, contributing to the catalogue of Afu allergenic proteins, which would facilitate improved serodiagnosis for allergic aspergillosis. In addition, the immunoreactivity of these proteins observed among the patients with ABPA may be potentially useful for its serodiagnosis and opens up further opportunities for the development of personalized immunotherapeutics for patients with ABPA. 
16866362	20060727	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	The interaction of Fusarium solani pisi cutinase with long chain spin label esters.	We here present a study of the interaction between the Fusarium solani pisi cutinase mutant S120A and spin-labeled 4,4-dimethyloxazoline-N-oxyl-(DOXYL)-stearoyl-glycerol substrates in a micellar system. The interaction is detected by NMR measuring changes in chemical shift for 1H and 15N as well as relaxation parameters for backbone 1H (T1) and 15N (T1, T2) atoms as well as for side chain methyl groups 1H (T1). The detected interaction shows a weak binding of cutinase to the lipid micelles. Structural and mobility changes are located inside and around the active site, its flanking loops, and the oxyanion hole, respectively. Relaxation changes in the amino acid pairs Ser 92, Ala 93 and Thr 173, Gly 174 positioned at the edge of each of the active site flanking loops make these residues prime candidates for hinges, allowing for structural rearrangement during substrate binding. The cutinase mutant S120A used carries a 15 amino acid pro-peptide; the significance of this pro-peptide was so far undetermined. We show here that the pro-peptide is affected by the presence of the micellar substrate. Relaxation enhancements indicative of spatial proximity between the DOXYL group in the lipid chain and some hydrophobic residues surrounding the active site could be found. 
14595525	20031105	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of a type-D feruloyl esterase from Neurospora crassa.	Feruloyl esterases constitute an interesting group of enzymes that have the potential for use over a broad range of applications in the agri-food industries. In order to expand the range of available enzymes, we have examined the presence of feruoyl esterase genes present in the genome sequence of the filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa. We have identified an orphan gene (contig 3.544), the translation of which shows sequence identity with known feruloyl esterases. This gene was cloned and the corresponding recombinant protein expressed in Pichia pastoris to confirm that the enzyme (NcFaeD-3.544) exhibits feruloyl esterase activity. Unusually the enzyme was capable of p-coumaric acid release from untreated crude plant cell wall materials. The substrate utilisation preferences of the recombinant enzyme place it in the recently recognised type-D sub-class of feruloyl esterase. 
23095575	20121026	BMC_Res_Notes	D016428 D013485 	Bacterial and fungal chitinase chiJ orthologs evolve under different selective constraints following horizontal gene transfer.	Certain bacteria from the genus Streptomyces are currently used as biological control agents against plant pathogenic fungi. Hydrolytic enzymes that degrade fungal cell wall components, such as chitinases, are suggested as one possible mechanism in biocontrol interactions. Adaptive evolution of chitinases are previously reported for plant chitinases involved in defence against fungal pathogens, and in fungal chitinases involved in fungal-fungal interactions. In this study we investigated the molecular evolution of chitinase chiJ in the bacterial genus Streptomyces. In addition, as chiJ orthologs are previously reported in certain fungal species as a result from horizontal gene transfer, we conducted a comparative study of differences in evolutionary patterns between bacterial and fungal taxa. ChiJ contained three sites evolving under strong positive selection and four groups of co-evolving sites. Regions of high amino acid diversity were predicted to be surface-exposed and associated with coil regions that connect certain α-helices and β-strands in the family 18 chitinase TIM barrel structure, but not associated with the catalytic cleft. The comparative study with fungal ChiJ orthologs identified three regions that display signs of type 1 functional divergence, where unique adaptations in the bacterial and fungal taxa are driven by positive selection. The identified surface-exposed regions of chitinase ChiJ where sequence diversification is driven by positive selection may putatively be related to functional divergence between bacterial and fungal orthologs. These results show that ChiJ orthologs have evolved under different selective constraints following the horizontal gene transfer event. 
1569086	19920425	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013487 	D-mannonolactam amidrazone. A new mannosidase inhibitor that also inhibits the endoplasmic reticulum or cytoplasmic alpha-mannosidase.	The amidrazone of D-mannonolactam (see compound 5, Fig. 1) was synthesized chemically as a mimic of the mannopyranosyl cation and tested as a potential inhibitor of mannosidases. In this study compound 5 is shown to be a more general mannosidase inhibitor than other currently known compounds and exhibits properties not previously observed with any other mannosidase inhibitors. Thus D-mannonolactam amidrazone not only inhibits the Golgi mannosidase I (IC50 = 4 microM) and mannosidase II (IC50 = 90-100 nM), but it is the first inhibitor that has been shown to be a potent inhibitor of the soluble or endoplasmic reticulum alpha-mannosidase (IC50 = 1 microM). This compound also inhibited the aryl-mannosidases regardless of anomeric configuration although it was much more effective on enzymes recognizing alpha-linked mannose, i.e. jack bean and mung bean alpha-mannosidases (IC50 = 400 nM) as compared with fungal beta-mannosidase (IC50 = 150 microM). Mannonoamidrazone was tested in animal cell cultures using influenza virus-infected Madin-Darby canine kidney cells as a model system, and was found to prevent almost completely the formation of complex types of N-linked oligosaccharides with the formation of about equal amounts of Man9(GlcNAc)2 and Man8(GlcNAc)2 structures. Thus D-mannonolactam amidrazone is a potent but broad spectrum mannosidase inhibitor whose structure and properties should provide valuable insight into the design of other useful glycosidase inhibitors. 
97279	19780601	J._Biochem.	D016428 	Mutarotation of hydrolysis products by different types of exo-cellulases from Trichoderma viride.	Mutarotation of products from p-nitrophenyl beta-D-cellobioside and cellopentaitol by two different types of exo-cellulases from Trichoderma viride was investigated. It was found that an exo-cellulase of glucosidase type produced from the former substrate D-glucose which was mutarotated in a downward direction, while another exo-cellulase of Avicelase type produced from the latter substrate cellobiose which was mutarotated in an upward direction. 
15090228	20040420	Assay_Drug_Dev_Technol	D003160 D016428 	Homogeneous assays for cellular protein degradation using beta-galactosidase complementation: NF-kappaB/IkappaB pathway signaling.	Activation of cells by the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) cytokines results in activation of the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) via proteasomal degradation of an associated IkappaB molecule. To monitor cellular IkappaB, the protein was recombinantly expressed as a fusion protein with a novel enzymatic tag, ProLabel (PL). ProLabel is a small 5.5-kDa sequence from the amino-terminal amino acids of beta-galactosidase, possesses a simple ribbon structure, and can be fused to many proteins via the amino or carboxyl terminus. Expression of this construct allows quantitative detection of the recombinant protein in crude lysates by using a method based on beta-galactosidase enzyme fragment complementation (EFC). Transient transfection of IkappaB-PL in HeLa cells generated an EFC signal that was highly correlated with a western analysis of the protein construct. ProLabel expressed alone in the cells did not show any EFC activity, due to rapid proteolytic degradation, indicating a very low background signal from the protein tag. TNF-alpha and IL-1 treatment induced a concentration-dependent degradation of IkappaB-PL, with potency values similar to those reported using other methods. IkappaBM-PL (mutant of IkappaB-PL), in contrast, did not undergo degradation for concentrations up to and including 10 ng/ml TNF-alpha or IL-1, demonstrating that degradation of IkappaB-PL was specific to the NF-kappaB pathway activation. TNF-alpha and IL-1 induced maximal IkappaB-PL degradation within 30 min of induction. This was reversed by several agents that ablate this pathway, including anti-TNF-alpha antibodies and the proteasome inhibitor, MG-132. The assay was amenable to HTS systems, with good precision and reproducibility. Z' values and coefficients of variance for IkappaB-PL degradation were 0.6 and <9%, respectively. 
21655220	20110610	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Snapshot of the eukaryotic gene expression in muskoxen rumen--a metatranscriptomic approach.	Herbivores rely on digestive tract lignocellulolytic microorganisms, including bacteria, fungi and protozoa, to derive energy and carbon from plant cell wall polysaccharides. Culture independent metagenomic studies have been used to reveal the genetic content of the bacterial species within gut microbiomes. However, the nature of the genes encoded by eukaryotic protozoa and fungi within these environments has not been explored using metagenomic or metatranscriptomic approaches. In this study, a metatranscriptomic approach was used to investigate the functional diversity of the eukaryotic microorganisms within the rumen of muskoxen (Ovibos moschatus), with a focus on plant cell wall degrading enzymes. Polyadenylated RNA (mRNA) was sequenced on the Illumina Genome Analyzer II system and 2.8 gigabases of sequences were obtained and 59129 contigs assembled. Plant cell wall degrading enzyme modules including glycoside hydrolases, carbohydrate esterases and polysaccharide lyases were identified from over 2500 contigs. These included a number of glycoside hydrolase family 6 (GH6), GH48 and swollenin modules, which have rarely been described in previous gut metagenomic studies. The muskoxen rumen metatranscriptome demonstrates a much higher percentage of cellulase enzyme discovery and an 8.7x higher rate of total carbohydrate active enzyme discovery per gigabase of sequence than previous rumen metagenomes. This study provides a snapshot of eukaryotic gene expression in the muskoxen rumen, and identifies a number of candidate genes coding for potentially valuable lignocellulolytic enzymes. 
21909270	20110913	PLoS_Pathog.	D016428 D013485 	Genomic insights into the origin of parasitism in the emerging plant pathogen Bursaphelenchus xylophilus.	Bursaphelenchus xylophilus is the nematode responsible for a devastating epidemic of pine wilt disease in Asia and Europe, and represents a recent, independent origin of plant parasitism in nematodes, ecologically and taxonomically distinct from other nematodes for which genomic data is available. As well as being an important pathogen, the B. xylophilus genome thus provides a unique opportunity to study the evolution and mechanism of plant parasitism. Here, we present a high-quality draft genome sequence from an inbred line of B. xylophilus, and use this to investigate the biological basis of its complex ecology which combines fungal feeding, plant parasitic and insect-associated stages. We focus particularly on putative parasitism genes as well as those linked to other key biological processes and demonstrate that B. xylophilus is well endowed with RNA interference effectors, peptidergic neurotransmitters (including the first description of ins genes in a parasite) stress response and developmental genes and has a contracted set of chemosensory receptors. B. xylophilus has the largest number of digestive proteases known for any nematode and displays expanded families of lysosome pathway genes, ABC transporters and cytochrome P450 pathway genes. This expansion in digestive and detoxification proteins may reflect the unusual diversity in foods it exploits and environments it encounters during its life cycle. In addition, B. xylophilus possesses a unique complement of plant cell wall modifying proteins acquired by horizontal gene transfer, underscoring the impact of this process on the evolution of plant parasitism by nematodes. Together with the lack of proteins homologous to effectors from other plant parasitic nematodes, this confirms the distinctive molecular basis of plant parasitism in the Bursaphelenchus lineage. The genome sequence of B. xylophilus adds to the diversity of genomic data for nematodes, and will be an important resource in understanding the biology of this unusual parasite. 
12878605	20030725	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Fig1p facilitates Ca2+ influx and cell fusion during mating of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	During the mating process of yeast cells, two Ca2+ influx pathways become activated. The resulting elevation of cytosolic free Ca2+ activates downstream signaling factors that promote long term survival of unmated cells, but the roles of Ca2+ in conjugation have not been described. The high affinity Ca2+ influx system is composed of Cch1p and Mid1p and sensitive to feedback inhibition by calcineurin, a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase. To identify components and regulators of the low affinity Ca2+ influx system (LACS), we screened a collection of pheromone-responsive genes that when deleted lead to defects in LACS activity but not high affinity Ca2+ influx system activity. Numerous factors implicated in polarized morphogenesis and cell fusion (Fus1p, Fus2p, Rvs161p, Bni1p, Spa2p, and Pea2p) were found to be necessary for LACS activity. Each of these factors was also required for activation of the cell integrity mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade during the response to alpha-factor. Interestingly a polytopic plasma membrane protein, Fig1p, was required for LACS activity but not required for activation of Mpk1p mitogen-activated protein kinase. Mpk1p was not required for LACS activity, suggesting Mpk1p and Fig1p define two independent branches in the pheromone response pathways. Fig1p-deficient mutants exhibit defects in the cell-cell fusion step of mating, but unlike other fus1 and fus2 mutants the fusion defect of fig1 mutants can be largely suppressed by high Ca2+ conditions, which bypass the requirement for LACS. These findings suggest Fig1p is an important component or regulator of LACS and provide the first evidence for a role of Ca2+ signals in the cell fusion step of mating. 
15372306	20040917	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Xylanases of marine fungi of potential use for biobleaching of paper pulp.	Microbial xylanases that are thermostable, active at alkaline pH and cellulase-free are generally preferred for biobleaching of paper pulp. We screened obligate and facultative marine fungi for xylanase activity with these desirable traits. Several fungal isolates obtained from marine habitats showed alkaline xylanase activity. The crude enzyme from NIOCC isolate 3 (Aspergillus niger), with high xylanase activity, cellulase-free and unique properties containing 580 U l(-1) xylanase, could bring about bleaching of sugarcane bagasse pulp by a 60 min treatment at 55 degrees C, resulting in a decrease of ten kappa numbers and a 30% reduction in consumption of chlorine during bleaching. The culture filtrate showed peaks of xylanase activity at pH 3.5 and pH 8.5. When assayed at pH 3.5, optimum activity was detected at 50 degrees C, with a second peak of activity at 90 degrees C. When assayed at pH 8.5, optimum activity was seen at 80 degrees C. The crude enzyme was thermostable at 55 degrees C for at least 4 h and retained about 60% activity. Gel filtration of the 50-80% ammonium sulphate-precipitated fraction of the crude culture filtrate separated into two peaks of xylanase with specific activities of 393 and 2,457 U (mg protein)(-1). The two peaks showing xylanase activity had molecular masses of 13 and 18 kDa. Zymogram analysis of xylanase of crude culture filtrate as well as the 50-80% ammonium sulphate-precipitated fraction showed two distinct xylanase activity bands on native PAGE. The crude culture filtrate also showed moderate activities of beta-xylosidase and alpha- l-arabinofuranosidase, which could act synergistically with xylanase in attacking xylan. This is the first report showing the potential application of crude culture filtrate of a marine fungal isolate possessing thermostable, cellulase-free alkaline xylanase activity in biobleaching of paper pulp. 
7865792	19950101	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	A proline-rich chitinase from Beta vulgaris.	A gene (Ch1) encoding a novel type of chitinase was isolated from Beta vulgaris. The Ch1 protein consists of an N-terminal hydrophobic prepeptide of 25 amino acids followed by a hevein-like domain of 22 amino acid residues, an unusually long proline-rich domain of 131 amino acid residues with 90 prolines, and finally a catalytic domain of 261 amino acid residues. Proteins with similar proline-rich domains are present in some other plants. The Ch1 gene shows a transient expression in response to fungal infection. 
10694493	20000301	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Dolichin, a new chitinase-like antifungal protein isolated from field beans (Dolichos lablab).	An antifungal protein, possessing a molecular weight of 28 kDa and an N-terminal sequence resembling chitinases, has been purified from the seeds of the field bean Dolichos lablab. The procedure involved extraction with aqueous buffer, affinity chromatography on Affi-gel blue gel, and ion exchange chromatography on CM-Sepharose. The protein, designated dolichin, exhibited antifungal activity against the fungi Fusarium oxysporum, Rhizoctonia solani, and Coprinus comatus. Dolichin was capable of inhibiting human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reverse transcriptase and alpha- and beta-glucosidases which are glycohydrolases implicated in HIV infection. It had very low ribonuclease and cell-free translation-inhibitory activities. 
22806776	20120719	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D023361 	Cellobiose dehydrogenase influences the production of S. microspora β-glucosidase.	BglG, a Stachybotrys microspora β-glucosidase produced in the presence of glucose and cellobiose, was used individually as sole carbon source. The time course synthesis of BglG showed two aspects: (1) an exponential curve, observed in glucose Mandels medium, and (2) a cloche curve, observed in cellobiose containing cultures. A decrease was observed in bglG production at the 6th, 8th and 10th days during mycelium growth in cellobiose Mandels medium, which allowed for the assumption that the anabolism of a bglG inhibitor factor was produced with cellobiose but not with glucose. Cellobiose dehydrogenases (CDH) activity was, on another hand detected in cellobiose grown cultures but not in glucose containing ones. The aliquots, withdrawn at the time course of bglG production in the presence of cellobiose, gave rise to an inhibitory effect on bglG activity. This result was obtained with and without the heat treatment (5 min at 100°C) of the aliquots, which supported the non-proteinaceous nature of the inhibitor factor. Furthermore, sugar chromatographic analyses revealed the appearance of a secondary metabolite in the cellobiose Mandels medium and indicated that the factor behind the bglG activity cloche curve was a δ-gluconolactone. Seeing that the latter follows a strong inhibitory effect on bglG activity, it is speculated that the decrease in bglG activity during the time course of bglG synthesis in cellobiose Mandels medium is assigned to the release of δ-gluconolactone. This paper presents and validates an explanatory model for this hypothesis. 
16535103	19950801	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Colonization of Transgenic Tobacco Constitutively Expressing Pathogenesis-Related Proteins by the Vesicular-Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungus Glomus mosseae.	We studied the effect of constitutive expression of pathogenesis-related proteins (PRs) in tobacco plants on vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza. Tobacco lines genetically transformed to express various PRs constitutively under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter of tobacco were examined. Immunoblot analysis and activity measurements demonstrated high levels of expression of the PRs in the root systems of the plants. Constitutive expression of the following acidic isoforms of tobacco PRs did not affect the time course or the final level of colonization by the vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae: PR-1a, PR-3 (=PR-Q), PR-Q(prm1), PR-4, and PR-5. Similarly, constitutive expression of an acidic cucumber chitinase, of a basic tobacco chitinase with and without its vacuolar targeting peptide, of a basic (beta)-1,3-glucanase, and of combinations of PR-Q and PR-Q(prm1) or basic chitinase and basic (beta)-1,3-glucanase did not affect colonization by the mycorrhizal fungus. A delay of colonization by G. mosseae was observed in tobacco plants constitutively expressing the acidic isoform of tobacco PR-2, a protein with (beta)-1,3-glucanase activity. 
12639956	20030318	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	Crystal structures of allosamidin derivatives in complex with human macrophage chitinase.	The pseudotrisaccharide allosamidin is a potent family 18 chitinase inhibitor with demonstrated biological activity against insects, fungi, and the Plasmodium falciparum life cycle. The synthesis and biological properties of several derivatives have been reported. The structural interactions of allosamidin with several family 18 chitinases have been determined by x-ray crystallography previously. Here, a high resolution structure of chitotriosidase, the human macrophage chitinase, in complex with allosamidin is presented. In addition, complexes of the allosamidin derivatives demethylallosamidin, methylallosamidin, and glucoallosamidin B are described, together with their inhibitory properties. Similar to other chitinases, inhibition of the human chitinase by allosamidin derivatives lacking a methyl group is 10-fold stronger, and smaller effects are observed for the methyl and C3 epimer derivatives. The structures explain the effects on inhibition in terms of altered hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions, together with displaced water molecules. The data reported here represent a first step toward structure-based design of specific allosamidin derivatives. 
19629717	20090725	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	The first crystal structures of a family 19 class IV chitinase: the enzyme from Norway spruce.	Chitinases help plants defend themselves against fungal attack, and play roles in other processes, including development. The catalytic modules of most plant chitinases belong to glycoside hydrolase family 19. We report here x-ray structures of such a module from a Norway spruce enzyme, the first for any family 19 class IV chitinase. The bi-lobed structure has a wide cleft lined by conserved residues; the most interesting for catalysis are Glu113, the proton donor, and Glu122, believed to be a general base that activate a catalytic water molecule. Comparisons to class I and II enzymes show that loop deletions in the class IV proteins make the catalytic cleft shorter and wider; from modeling studies, it is predicted that only three N-acetylglucosamine-binding subsites exist in class IV. Further, the structural comparisons suggest that the family 19 enzymes become more closed on substrate binding. Attempts to solve the structure of the complete protein including the associated chitin-binding module failed, however, modeling studies based on close relatives indicate that the binding module recognizes at most three N-acetylglucosamine units. The combined results suggest that the class IV enzymes are optimized for shorter substrates than the class I and II enzymes, or alternatively, that they are better suited for action on substrates where only small regions of chitin chain are accessible. Intact spruce chitinase is shown to possess antifungal activity, which requires the binding module; removing this module had no effect on measured chitinase activity. 
1248782	19760101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	Purification of xylanase from the wood-rotting fungus Trametes hirsuta.	Xylanase (EC 3.2.1.8) was purified from a crude extracellular enzyme of the wood-rotting fungus Trametes hirsuta by a four-step procedure involving precipitation with ammonium sulphate, gel filtration on Bio-Gel P-10, column chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex A-50 and preparative electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel. The isolated enzyme, electrophoretically homogeneous, was separated from beta-xylo-sylosidase and other hydrolytic enzymes studied. The analysis of the degradation products of water-soluble (4-0-methylglucurono)-D-xylan from willow by the purified xylanase showed it to be endoxylanase (beta-1,4-xylan xylanohydrolase). 
23820081	20130704	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Expression of antimicrobial peptides thanatin(S) in transgenic Arabidopsis enhanced resistance to phytopathogenic fungi and bacteria.	Thanatin(S) is an analog of thanatin, an insect antimicrobial peptide possessing strong and broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity. In order to investigate if the thanatin could be used in engineering transgenic plants for increased resistance against phytopathogens, the synthetic thanatin(S) was introduced into Arabidopsis thaliana plants. To increase the expression level of thanatin(S) in plants, the coding sequence was optimized by plant-preference codon. To avoid cellular protease degradation, signal peptide of rice Cht1 was fused to N terminal of thanatin(S) for secreting the expressed thanatin(S) into intercellular spaces. To evaluate the application value of thanatin(S) in plant disease control, the synthesized coding sequence of Cht1 signal peptide (Cht1SP)-thanatin(S) was ligated to plant gateway destination binary vectors pGWB11 (with FLAG tag). Meanwhile, in order to observe the subcellular localization of Cht1SP-thanatin(S)-GFP and thanatin(S)-GFP, the sequences of Cht1SP-thanatin(S) and thanatin(S) were respectively linked to pGWB5 (with GFP tag). The constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 and mutant pad4-1 via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The transformants with Cht1SP-thanatin(S)-FLAG fusion gene were analyzed by genomic PCR, real-time PCR, and western blots and the transgenic Arabidopsis plants introduced respectively Cht1SP-thanatin(S)-GFP and thanatin(S)-GFP were observed by confocal microscopy. Transgenic plants expressing Cht1SP-thanatin(S)-FLAG fusion protein showed antifungal activity against Botrytis cinerea and powdery mildew, as well as antibacterial activity against Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato. And the results from confocal observation showed that the GFP signal from Cht1SP-thanatin(S)-GFP transgenic Arabidopsis plants occurred mainly in intercellular space, while that from thanatin(S)-GFP transgenic plants was mainly detected in the cytoplasm and that from empty vector transgenic plants was distributed uniformly throughout the cell, demonstrating that Cht1 signal peptide functioned. In addition, thanatin(S) and thanatin(S)-FLAG chemically synthesized have both in vitro antimicrobial activities against P. syringae pv. tomato and B. cinerea. So, thanatin(S) is an ideal candidate AMPs for the construction of transgenic crops endowed with a broad-spectrum resistance to phytopathogens and the strategy is feasible to link a signal peptide to the target gene.  
22985601	20120919	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D003160 D016428 D013485 	The cytosol-synthesized subunit II (Cox2) precursor with the point mutation W56R is correctly processed in yeast mitochondria to rescue cytochrome oxidase.	Deletion of the yeast mitochondrial gene COX2 encoding subunit 2 (Cox2) of cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) results in loss of respiration (Δcox2 strain). Supekova et al. (2010) [1] transformed a Δcox2 strain with a vector expressing Cox2 with a mitochondrial targeting sequence (MTS) and the point mutation W56R (Cox2(W56R)), restoring respiratory growth. Here, the CcO carrying the allotopically-expressed Cox2(W56R) was characterized. Yeast mitochondria from the wild-type (WT) and the Δcox2+Cox2(W56R) strains were subjected to Blue Native electrophoresis. In-gel activity of CcO and spectroscopic quantitation of cytochromes revealed that only 60% of CcO is present in the complemented strain, and that less CcO is found associated in supercomplexes as compared to WT. CcOs from the WT and the mutant exhibited similar subunit composition, although activity was 20-25% lower in the enzyme containing Cox2(W56R) than in the one with Cox2(WT). Tandem mass spectrometry confirmed that W(56) was substituted by R(56) in Cox2(W56R). In addition, Cox2(W56R) exhibited the same N-terminus than Cox2(WT), indicating that the MTS of Oxa1 and the leader sequence of 15 residues were removed from Cox2(W56R) during maturation. Thus, Cox2(W56R) is identical to Cox2(WT) except for the point mutation W56R. Mitochondrial Cox1 synthesis is strongly reduced in Δcox2 mutants, but the Cox2(W56R) complemented strain led to full restoration of Cox1 synthesis. We conclude that the cytosol-synthesized Cox2(W56R) follows a rate-limiting process of import, maturation or assembly that yields lower steady-state levels of CcO. Still, the allotopically-expressed Cox2(W56R) restores CcO activity and allows mitochondrial Cox1 synthesis to advance at WT levels. 
21340534	20110223	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Pretreatment of rice straw by proton beam irradiation for efficient enzyme digestibility.	Biomass was pretreated with proton beam irradiation (PBI) in order to enhance enzyme digestibility. Rice straw and soaking in aqueous ammonia (SAA)-treated rice straw were treated with 1-25 kGy doses of PBI at a beam energy of 45 MeV. The optimal doses of PBI for efficient sugar recovery were 15 and 3 kGy for rice straw and SAA-treated rice straw, respectively. When PBI was applied to rice straw at 15 kGy, the glucose conversion reached 68% of the theoretical maximum at 72 h. When 3 kGy of PBI was applied to SAA-treated rice straw, approximately 90% of the theoretical glucose conversion was obtained at 12 h compared to a 89% conversion at 48 h. After 2 h of enzymatic saccharification, the initial reaction rates of raw rice straw pretreated with 15 kGy of PBI and SAA-treated rice straw pretreated with 3 kGy of PBI were 1.4 × 10⁻⁴ and 9.7 × 10⁻⁴ g L⁻¹ s⁻¹, respectively. Further, the results of X-ray diffractometry support the effect of PBI on sugar recovery, whereas scanning electron microscopy images revealed a more rugged rice straw surface. 
19200313	20090210	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Enhanced in vitro and in vivo antioxidant activity and mobilization of free phenolic compounds of soybean flour fermented with different beta-glucosidase-producing fungi.	To evaluate the soybean polyphenol glucosides bioconversion to aglycone forms by different beta-glucosidases-producing filamentous fungi to enhance their antioxidant activity. Soybean defatted flour was submitted to solid-state fermentation with Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus niveus and Aspergillus awamori. The fungi studied produced approximately the same beta-glucosidase activity units amount when p-nitrophenyl-beta-d-glucopyranoside was used as substrate for the assay. However, electrophoretic analysis, using 4-methylumbellipheryl-beta-d-glucopyranoside as substrate, showed that beta-glucosidase produced by A. niveus was more active. Fermented methanolic extracts showed an increase in polyphenol and genistein contents and antioxidant activities. The highest genistein content was found in soybean fermented by A. niveus. Methanolic extracts of the soybean fermented by the different fungi showed a similar capacity of scavenging H(2)O(2) generated in vivo by the tumour promoter 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate. A. niveus synthesized a beta-glucosidase with higher specificity to hydrolyse genistin beta-glycosidic bond than those produced by A. awamori and A. niger. The utilization of these beta-glucosidases-producing fungi in soybean fermentation processes resulted in the obtaining of methanolic extracts with different antioxidant potentials that could be used either therapeutically or as an antioxidant in nonphysiological oxidative stress conditions, as the one induced in skin by UV radiation. 
20811797	20100903	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Covalent immobilization of β-1,4-glucosidase from Agaricus arvensis onto functionalized silicon oxide nanoparticles.	An efficient β-1,4-glucosidase (BGL) secreting strain, Agaricus arvensis, was isolated and identified. The relative molecular weight of the purified A. arvensis BGL was 98 kDa, as determined by sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, or 780 kDa by size exclusion chromatography, indicating that the enzyme is an octamer. Using a crude enzyme preparation, A. arvensis BGL was covalently immobilized onto functionalized silicon oxide nanoparticles with an immobilization efficiency of 158%. The apparent V (max) (k (cat)) values of free and immobilized BGL under standard assay conditions were 3,028 U mg protein(-1) (4,945 s(-1)) and 3,347 U mg protein(-1) (5,466 s(-1)), respectively. The immobilized BGL showed a higher optimum temperature and improved thermostability as compared to the free enzyme. The half-life at 65 °C showed a 288-fold improvement over the free BGL. After 25 cycles, the immobilized enzyme still retained 95% of the original activity, thus demonstrating its prospects for commercial applications. High specific activity, high immobilization efficiency, improved stability, and reusability of A. arvensis BGL make this enzyme of potential interest in a number of industrial applications. 
15003456	20040309	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 	Ligand-mediated dimerization of a carbohydrate-binding molecule reveals a novel mechanism for protein-carbohydrate recognition.	The structural and thermodynamic basis for carbohydrate-protein recognition is of considerable importance. NCP-1, which is a component of the Piromyces equi cellulase/hemicellulase complex, presents a provocative model for analyzing how structural and mutational changes can influence the ligand specificity of carbohydrate-binding proteins. NCP-1 contains two "family 29" carbohydrate-binding modules designated CBM29-1 and CBM29-2, respectively, that display unusually broad specificity; the proteins interact weakly with xylan, exhibit moderate affinity for cellulose and mannan, and bind tightly to the beta-1,4-linked glucose-mannose heteropolymer glucomannan. The crystal structure of CBM29-2 in complex with cellohexaose and mannohexaose identified key residues involved in ligand recognition. By exploiting this structural information and the broad specificity of CBM29-2, we have used this protein as a template to explore the evolutionary mechanisms that can lead to significant changes in ligand specificity. Here, we report the properties of the E78R mutant of CBM29-2, which displays ligand specificity that is different from that of wild-type CBM29-2; the protein retains significant affinity for cellulose but does not bind to mannan or glucomannan. Significantly, E78R exhibits a stoichiometry of 0.5 when binding to cellohexaose, and both calorimetry and ultracentrifugation show that the mutant protein displays ligand-mediated dimerization in solution. The three-dimensional structure of E78R in complex with cellohexaose reveals the intriguing molecular basis for this "dimeric" binding mode that involves the lamination of the oligosaccharide between two CBM molecules. The 2-fold screw axis of the ligand is mirrored in the orientation of the two protein domains with adjacent sugar rings stacking against the equivalent aromatic residues in the binding site of each protein molecule of the molecular sandwich. The sandwiching of an oligosaccharide chain between two protein modules, leading to ligand-induced formation of the binding site, represents a completely novel mechanism for protein-carbohydrate recognition that may mimic that displayed by naturally dimeric protein-carbohydrate interactions. 
17587693	20070626	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Cloning and characterization of the gene encoding endo-beta-1,3-glucanase from Arthrobacter sp. NHB-10.	The gluA gene, encoding an endo-beta-1,3-glucanase from Arthrobacter sp. (strain NHB-10), was cloned and analyzed. The deduced endo-beta-1,3-glucanase amino acid sequence was 750 amino acids long and contained a 42 amino acid signal peptide with a mature protein of 708 amino acids. There was no similarity to known endo-beta-1,3-glucanases, but GluA was partially similar to two fungal exo-beta-1,3-glucanases in glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 55. Of five possible residues for catalysis and two motifs in two beta-helix heads of GH family 55, three residues and one motif were conserved in GluA, suggesting that GluA is the first bacterial endo-beta-1,3-glucanase in GH family 55. Significant similarity was also found to two proteins of unknown function from Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2) and S. avermitilis. 
23033636	20121005	J_Environ_Biol	D016428 	Optimization of solid state fermentation conditions for the production of cellulase by Trichoderma reesei.	Cellulase production studies have been carried out using the fungal strain Trichoderma reesei NCIM 992 by using three different lignocellulosic materials by solid state fermentation (SSF). The effect of basic fermentation parameters (pH, temperature, moisture content, particle size of substrate and moistening agent) on enzyme production was studied. Maximum cellulase production was 2.63 U ml(-1) using wheat bran as substrate. The optimal conditions forcellulase production forwheat bran were found to be: initial moisture content - 70%, initial medium pH-5.0, temperature-30 degrees C, moistening agents (MSS) and particle size of substrate (500 microm).The optimal incubation time for production was six days. Results indicate the scope for further optimization of the production conditions to obtain higher cellulase titres using the strain under SSF. 
14672234	20031216	J._Food_Prot.	D016428 D013485 	Pectin methyl esterase and natural microflora of fresh mixed orange and carrot juice treated with pulsed electric fields.	The effects of pulsed electric fields (PEFs) on pectin methyl esterase (PME), molds and yeast, and total flora in fresh (nonpasteurized) mixed orange and carrot juice were studied. The PEF effect was more extensive when juices with high levels of initial PME activity were subjected to treatment and when PEF treatment (at 25 kV/cm for 340 micros) was combined with a moderate temperature (63 degrees C), with the maximum level of PME inactivation being 81.4%. These conditions produced 3.7 decimal reductions in molds and yeast and 2.4 decimal reductions in total flora. Experimental inactivation data for PME, molds and yeast, and total flora were fitted to Bigelow, Hülsheger, and Weibull inactivation models by nonlinear regression. The best fit (lowest mean square error) was obtained with the Weibull model. 
3139044	19881013	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Purification of the beta-glucosidase from Sclerotinia sclerotiorum.	A beta-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21) has been isolated from culture filtrates of the fungus Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. The protein was purified by gel filtration on a column of Bio-Gel P-300 and by ion exchange chromatography on DEAE-Bio-Gel A. The molecular weight, determined by gel filtration, was 240,000. Km values for the enzyme towards p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucoside and cellobiose were respectively 0.10 mM and 1.23 mM. The beta-glucosidase activity was found to be strongly associated with a beta-xylosidase (EC 3.2.1.37) activity, suggesting that both activities could be represented in a single protein complex. 
11112513	20001209	Protein_Eng.	D016428 D013485 	Minor structural consequences of alternative CUG codon usage (Ser for Leu) in Candida albicans exoglucanase.	In some species of Candida the CUG codon is encoded as serine and not leucine. In the case of the exo-beta-1,3-glucanase from the pathogenic fungus C. albicans there are two such translational events, one in the prepro-leader sequence and the other at residue 64. Overexpression of active mature enzyme in a yeast host indicated that these two positions are tolerant to substitution. By comparing the crystal structure of the recombinant protein with that of the native (presented here), it is seen how either serine or leucine can be accommodated at position 64. Examination of the relatively few solved protein structures from C. albicans indicates that other CUG encoded serines are also found at non-essential surface sites. However such codon usage is rare in C. albicans, in contrast to C. rugosa, with direct implications for respective recombinant protein production. 
9094436	19970317	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	NMR evidence for a novel asparagine-linked oligosaccharide on cellobiohydrolase I from Trichoderma reesei RUTC 30.	The primary structure of a novel phosphate-containing oligosaccharide, isolated from T. reesei cellobiohydrolase I, was determined by NMR techniques. The new compound has the same structure as GlcMan7GlcNAc2, but it is extended by one alpha-mannopyranosyl unit (Man-P) through a phosphate link. Three different heteronuclear (31P-1H) NMR techniques were used to prove that the phosphate links the glycosidic site of Man-P with C-6 of unit Man-B. The presence of mannoses linked through a phosphate diester resembles glycosyl synthesis in yeast. 
22953959	20120908	Food_Chem	D016428 D013485 	Anti-diabetic activity peptides from albumin against α-glucosidase and α-amylase.	The objectives of this study were to identify novel peptides from albumin, and to evaluate and validate the anti-diabetic activity of peptides against α-glucosidase and α-amylase. In the research, albumin hydrolysate was purified and identified, tandem MS was adapted to characterise the amino acid sequences of peptides from the hydrolysate. In addition, anti-diabetic effects of the peptides with α-glucosidase and α-amylase inhibitory activity have been performed. The present work found eight novel peptides from albumin. Results also suggested that peptide KLPGF had α-glucosidase inhibitory activity with an IC(50) of 59.5±5.7μmoll(-1) and α-amylase inhibitory activity with an IC(50) of 120.0±4.0μmoll(-1). In conclusion, the results revealed that the peptide KLPGF was a potential anti-diabetic inhibitor. 
11304525	20010417	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	ACEII, a novel transcriptional activator involved in regulation of cellulase and xylanase genes of Trichoderma reesei.	A novel yeast-based method to isolate transcriptional activators was applied to clone regulators binding to the cellulase promoter cbh1 of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina). This led to the isolation of the cellulase activator ace2 encoding for a protein belonging to the class of zinc binuclear cluster proteins found exclusively in fungi. The DNA-binding domain of ACEII was expressed as a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein in Escherichia coli, and ACEII was shown to bind in vitro to the 5'-GGCTAATAA site present in the cbh1 promoter. This site also contains the proposed binding sequence of the xylanase activator XlnR of Aspergillus niger. Mutation of the GGC triplet abolished ACEII binding. The function of ACEII was studied by analyzing the effects of ace2 deletion in the hypercellulolytic T. reesei strain ALKO2221. Deletion of the ace2 gene led to lowered induction kinetics of mRNAs encoding the major cellulases cellobiohydrolases I and II and endoglucanases I and II and to 30-70% reduced cellulase activity when the fungus was grown on medium containing Solka floc cellulose. The expression level of the gene encoding xylanase was also affected. ace2 deletion led to lowered xyn2 expression in cellulose-induced cultivation. Cellulase induction by sophorose was not affected by ace2 deletion. 
15168093	20040529	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Streptomyces lividans and Brevibacterium lactofermentum as heterologous hosts for the production of X22 xylanase from Aspergillus nidulans.	The Aspergillus nidulans gene xlnA coding for the fungal xylanase X22 has been cloned and expressed in two heterologous bacterial hosts: Streptomyces lividans and Brevibacterium lactofermentum. Streptomyces strains yielded 10 units/ml of xylanase when the protein was produced with its own signal peptide, and 19 units/ml when its signal peptide was replaced by the one for xylanase Xys1 from Streptomyces halstedii. B. lactofermentum was also able to produce xylanase X22, affording 6 units/ml upon using either the Aspergillus xlnA signal peptide or Streptomyces xysA. These production values are higher than those previously reported for the heterologous expression of the A. nidulans xlnA gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (1 unit/ml). Moreover, the X22 enzyme produced by Streptomyces lividans showed oenological properties, indicating that this Streptomyces recombinant strain is a good candidate for the production of this enzyme at the industrial scale. 
18443780	20080430	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Induction, purification and characterization of alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase from Aspergillus Niger.	A set of filamentous fungi (42 strains) was screened for alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase activity, and a series of inducers and different cultivation conditions were tested. Enzyme production by the best producer Aspergillus niger CCIM K2 was optimized and scaled up. alpha-N-Acetylgalactosaminidase was purified to apparent homogeneity by cation exchange chromatography, gel filtration, and chromatofocusing, and basic biochemical data of the enzyme were determined: The native molecular weight was estimated by gel filtration to be approximately 440 kDa, the molecular weight of the subunit was determined to be 76 kDa and the pI = 4.8. The K (M) was 0.73 mmol/l for o-nitrophenyl 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-alpha-D-galactopyranoside (o-NP-alpha-GalNAc), and optimum enzyme activity was achieved at pH 1.8 and 55 degrees C. This alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase is a retaining-type glycosidase, and it was N-deglycosylated without any loss of activity. 
15247378	20040713	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Targeted modification of homogalacturonan by transgenic expression of a fungal polygalacturonase alters plant growth.	Pectins are a highly complex family of cell wall polysaccharides comprised of homogalacturonan (HGA), rhamnogalacturonan I and rhamnogalacturonan II. We have specifically modified HGA in both tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and Arabidopsis by expressing the endopolygalacturonase II of Aspergillus niger (AnPGII). Cell walls of transgenic tobacco plants showed a 25% reduction in GalUA content as compared with the wild type and a reduced content of deesterified HGA as detected by antibody labeling. Neutral sugars remained unchanged apart from a slight increase of Rha, Ara, and Gal. Both transgenic tobacco and Arabidopsis were dwarfed, indicating that unesterified HGA is a critical factor for plant cell growth. The dwarf phenotypes were associated with AnPGII activity as demonstrated by the observation that the mutant phenotype of tobacco was completely reverted by crossing the dwarfed plants with plants expressing PGIP2, a strong inhibitor of AnPGII. The mutant phenotype in Arabidopsis did not appear when transformation was performed with a gene encoding AnPGII inactivated by site directed mutagenesis. 
18076379	20071214	Biol._Cell	D016428 D013485 	Mutations in a small region of the exportin Crm1p disrupt the daughter cell-specific nuclear localization of the transcription factor Ace2p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The CBK1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a protein kinase that is a member of the NDR (nuclear Dbf2-related) family of protein kinases, which are involved in morphogenesis and cell proliferation. Previous studies have shown that deletion of CBK1 leads to a loss of polarity and the formation of large aggregates of cells. This aggregation phenotype is due to the loss of the daughter cell-specific accumulation of the transcription factor Ace2p, which is responsible for the transcription of genes whose products are necessary for the final separation of the mother and the daughter at the end of cell division. We show that the daughter cell-specific localization of Ace2p does not occur via a specific localization of the ACE2 mRNA and that, in vivo, the transcription of CTS1, one of the principal targets of Ace2p, is daughter cell-specific. We have shown that extragenic suppressors of the Deltacbk1 aggregation phenotype are located in the nuclear exportin CRM1 and ACE2. These mutations disrupt the interaction of Ace2p and Crm1p, thus impairing Ace2p export and resulting in the accumulation of the protein in both mother and daughter cell nuclei. We propose that in the daughter cell nucleus Cbk1p phosphorylates the Ace2p nuclear export signal, and that this phosphorylation blocks the export of Ace2p via Crm1p, thus promoting the daughter cell-specific nuclear accumulation of Ace2p. 
1843411	19910101	Symp._Soc._Exp._Biol.	D016428 D013486 D016454 	Molecular analysis of gene regulation and function during male gametophyte development.	We have characterised three pollen-expressed genes (LAT52, LAT56 and LAT59) from tomato in order to determine their role in pollen development, and to determine the DNA sequences responsible for gene expression in pollen. LAT52 encodes a protein that shows amino acid sequence similarity to a protein encoded by a pollen-specific cDNA clone (pZmc13) isolated from maize, and both proteins have amino acid sequence similarity to Kunitz trypsin inhibitors of soybean and winged bean. The proteins encoded by LAT56 and LAT59 genes are 54% identical at the amino acid level, and show significant sequence similarity to bacterial pectate lyases and to a fungal pectin lyase. Additionally, regions of LAT56 and LAT59 show significant sequence similarity to tryptic peptides of ragweed and Japanese cedar pollen allergens. Preliminary results suggest that plants harboring antisense constructs of the LAT52 coding region show defects in pollen germination and fertilisation; no obvious phenotype was seen in plants harboring antisense constructs of the LAT59 coding region. Promoter fragments of these three LAT genes were fused to the reporter gene GUS and assayed using both a transient system and stably transformed plants. We have identified relatively short regions of the LAT promoters that are important for pollen expression, and are attempting to isolate trans-acting factors that interact with these cis-acting sequences, using both molecular and classical genetic approaches. 
22586919	20120517	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D016428 D013485 	Construction of the industrial ethanol-producing strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae able to ferment cellobiose and melibiose.	The gene mel1, encoding alpha-galactosidase in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and the gene bgl2, encoding and beta-glucosidase in Trichoderma reesei, were isolated and co-expressed in the industrial ethanol-producing strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The resulting strains were able to grow on cellobiose and melibiose through simultaneous production of sufficient extracellular alpha-galactosidase and beta-glucosidase activity. Under aerobic conditions, the growth rate of the recombinant strain GC 1 co-expressing 2 genes could achieve 0.29 OD600 h(-1) and a biomass yield up to 7.8 g l(-1) dry cell weight on medium containing 10.0 g l(-1) cellobiose and 10.0 g l(-1) melibiose as sole carbohydrate source. Meanwhile, the new strain of S. cerevisiae CG 1 demonstrated the ability to directly produce ethanol from microcrystalline cellulose during simultaneous saccharification and fermentation process. Approximately 36.5 g l(-1) ethanol was produced from 100 g of cellulose supplied with 5 g l(-1) melibose within 60 h. The yield (g of ethanol produced/g of carbohydrate consumed) was 0.44 g/g, which corresponds to 88.0% of the theoretical yield. 
10773444	20000425	Gene	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Zero background yeast reporter plasmids.	UAS-less reporter plasmids are widespread and powerful tools for the identification and analysis of binding sites for transcriptional activators. The common reporter plasmids for the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae are multicopy (2mu) vectors with the CYC1 core promoter upstream of the lacZ gene. Insertion of putative or known activator binding sites upstream of the core promoter puts lacZ (beta-galactosidase) expression under the control of the corresponding activator. Although these constructs have proved to work well for most purposes, they have certain limitations: (1) they give significant and carbon-source-dependent lacZ background expression; (2) unlike most other yeast promoters, the CYC1 upstream region has a partially open chromatin structure with an accessible TATA box; (3) they use only a single, moderately sensitive reporter; and (4) the use of multicopy vectors can result in activator titration. Here, we introduce novel reporter plasmids based on the yeast MEL1 (alpha-galactosidase) gene that can overcome all of these limitations. It is also shown that background expression is due to fortuitous activator binding sites within the plasmid backbones that are insufficiently shielded from the core promoters in the common CYC1 reporter plasmids. 
7487002	19951001	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of Trichoderma reesei cellulases on glucose-containing media.	The filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei was shown to secrete active cellobiohydrolase I and the endoglucanase I catalytic core domain into the culture medium when the fungus was grown on glucose-containing medium. The expression of the proteins was driven by the promoters of the elongation factor 1 alpha, tef1, and the unidentified gene for cDNA1. The cDNA1 promoter gave the best yields. The highest amounts of cellobiohydrolase I and the endoglucanase I core, being 50 to 100 mg/liter, accounted for more than half of the total protein secreted by the fungus. The levels obtained with the tef1 promoter were 20 to 50 times lower. 
16162243	20050916	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Solid-state fermentation of cornmeal with the basidiomycete Ganoderma lucidum for degrading starch and upgrading nutritional value.	The objective of this research was to study the ability of the basidiomycete Ganoderma lucidum to degrade starch and upgrade nutritional value of cornmeal during solid-state fermentation (SSF). On the basal medium that consisted of cornmeal and salt solution, alpha-amylase activity of G. lucidum reached its maximum value of 267 U g(-1) of culture on day 20 after inoculation. Prolongation of fermentation time from 10 to 25 days increased significantly the degradation rate of starch and ergosterol yield (a kind of physiologically active substances of G. lucidum, also as an indicator of mycelial biomass) (P < 0.01). Supplementation of glucose, sucrose or maltose to the basal medium also caused a significant increase in either the degradation rate of starch or the ergosterol yield as compared with control (P < 0.01). Among five kinds of nitrogen sources supplemented, yeast extract, casamino acid and peptone were more effective than (NH4)2SO4 and NH4NO3, and yeast extract gave the highest degradation rate of starch and ergosterol yield, followed by peptone. Through orthogonal experiments, the theoretical optimum culture medium for SSF of this fungus was the following: 100 g cornmeal, ground to 30-mesh powder, moistened with 67 ml of nutrient salt solution supplemented with 3 g yeast extract and 7.5 g glucose per litre. Under the optimum culture condition, the degradation rate of starch reached its maximum values of 70.4%; the starch content of the fermented product decreased from 64.5 to 25.3%, while the reducing sugar content increased from 4.2 to 20.6%. SSF also produced a significant increase (P < 0.01) from 11.0 to 16.5% in protein content. After SSF by G. lucidum, the digesting and absorbing ratio of cornmeal was strikingly increased and some active substances originated from G. lucidum remained in the fermented product. This implied that cornmeal could be processed into many kinds of special functional foods by SSF of G. lucidum. 
3327914	19870801	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	A mutant of Candida albicans deficient in beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase (chitobiase).	A mutant of Candida albicans ATCC 10261 was isolated that was defective in the production of beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase (chitobiase). The mutant grew normally in minimal medium supplemented with either glucose or N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) as carbon and energy source, and the cells formed germ-tubes at 37 degrees C when induced to do so with GlcNAc. However, unlike the wild-type parent strain, the mutant strain did not utilize N,N'-diacetylchitobiose for growth. The mutant and parent strains had similar growth rates on glucose or GlcNAc, similar rates of uptake of these sugars and similar rates of 14C-labelled amino acid incorporation. The chitobiase mutant did, however, contain 53-85% more chitin than the wild-type strain. No reversion of the mutant phenotype was observed following induction of mitotic recombination with UV light, suggesting that the mutant allele (chi) was carried homozygously in the chitobiase-deficient mutant. Although the chitobiase-deficient mutant was pathogenic, it was not as virulent as the wild-type strain. 
8768483	19960401	Rev._Argent._Microbiol.	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Endoglucanase production in 4 species of the genus Saccobolus].	Endoglucanase production was measured in culture filtrates of four species of Saccobolus growing in media containing glucose or crystalline cellulose as the only carbon sources. Enzyme activity was four to seven times higher in the presence of cellulose than glucose. S. saccoboloides showed maximal growth and enzyme production. The extracellular proteins secreted during growth on cellulose were separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and stained for proteins. A zymogram technique was used to visualize bands with endoglucanase activity. The four species showed different protein and isoenzyme patterns. 
22608736	20120522	Meth._Enzymol.	D016428 D013485 	Methods for the isolation of cellulose-degrading microorganisms.	The biodegradation of lignocellulose, the most abundant organic material in the biosphere, is a feature of many aerobic, facultatively anaerobic and obligately anaerobic bacteria and fungi. Despite widely recognized difficulties in the isolation and cultivation of individual microbial species from complex microbial populations and environments, significant progress has been made in recovering cellulolytic taxa from a range of ecological niches including the human, herbivore, and termite gut, and terrestrial, aquatic, and managed environments. Knowledge of cellulose-degrading microbial taxa is of significant importance with respect to nutrition, biodegradation, biotechnology, and the carbon-cycle, providing insights into the metabolism, physiology, and functional enzyme systems of the cellulolytic bacteria and fungi that are responsible for the largest flow of carbon in the biosphere. In this chapter, several strategies employed for the isolation and cultivation of cellulolytic microorganisms from oxic and anoxic environments are described. 
10422230	19990728	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Duplicated Clostridium thermocellum cellobiohydrolase gene encoding cellulosomal subunits S3 and S5.	The upstream region of the cellobiohydrolase gene cbhA of Clostridium thermocellum F7 was sequenced. It was found that this region contains the previously sequenced gene celK encoding an enzyme closely related to CbhA (cellulosomal subunit S3). The presence of a putative transcription terminator in the 524-bp intergenic region indicates that celK and cbhA are not cotranscribed as an operon. Sequence comparison between the two cellobiohydrolases revealed high sequence conservation in the catalytic domain and in the N-terminal cellulose-binding domain (CBD) homologous to CBD family IV, which binds specifically to amorphous cellulose and soluble cellooligosaccharides. In contrast to CbhA, CelK lacks a family III CBD capable of binding to crystalline cellulose. By partial amino acid sequence determination CelK was shown to be identical to cellulosomal subunit S5. CelK and CbhA were found to be members of subfamily E1 of cellulase family E (glycosylhydrolase family 9). Sequence comparison of catalytic domains of family E1 cellulases with C. thermocellum CelD, a family E1 endoglucanase of known three-dimensional structure, revealed a significant variation in the lengths of substrate-binding loops connecting the helices of the (alpha/alpha)6 barrel fold. The extended loops of CelK and CbhA might form an active-site tunnel, as found in the catalytic domains of fungal cellobiohydrolases. 
8978094	19961215	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	The beta-1, 6-glucan containing side-chain of cell wall proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is bound to the glycan core of the GPI moiety.	Cell wall proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae are anchored by means of a beta-1, 6-glucan-containing side-chain. It is not known whether this chain is linked to the protein part (e.g. through carbohydrate side-chains) or to the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) moiety of cell wall proteins. An IgA protease recognition site was introduced in Cwp2p, a beta-1, 6-glucosylated cell wall protein, immediately N-terminal from the omega amino acid (the attachment site of the GPI moiety). Proteolytic cleavage of this site revealed that the beta-1, 6-glucan epitope was not linked to the protein part. We conclude that neither N-or O-glycosylation is involved in beta-glucosylation of cell wall proteins. This confirms that the glycan core of the GPI moiety is the probable beta-1, 6-glucan attachment site. 
8536316	19950601	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Multiple roles of the cellulase CBHI in enhancing production of fusion antibodies by the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei.	The production of Fab antibody fragments in Trichoderma reesei can be increased over 50-fold by fusing the core-linker region of the T. reesei cellulase CBHI (cellobiohydrolase I) to the heavy Fd chain (Nyyssönen et al. 1993). This beneficial role of CBHI in antibody production has now been studied further by comparisons of T. reesei trains producing the light chain only. Fab or CBHI-Fab all of which exhibited identical light chain integration. The N-terminal fusion of CBHI to the heavy Fd chain not only aided secretion, as expected, but also increased the level of mRNA encoding the CBHI-heavy Fd chain, either by stabilizing the messenger or by enhancing transcription. The CBHI part appeared to facilitate secretion at least by aiding the passage through the endoplasmic reticulum, since processing of the signal peptide of the antibody chains seemed to be most efficient in the strain producing CBHI-Fab in contrast to the strains producing light chain or Fab fragment. Interestingly, CBHI core-linker protein, originating from the CBHI-heavy Fd chain, was found in large amounts in the culture medium. The cleavage resulting in this tailless CBHI occurred inside the cell. This suggests that, by omitting the heterologous tail, the secretion of the resulting CBHI core-linker protein is enhanced to a level comparable with secretion of the extracellular T. reesei proteins. 
11856298	20020222	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Plant alpha-amylase inhibitors and their interaction with insect alpha-amylases.	Insect pests and pathogens (fungi, bacteria and viruses) are responsible for severe crop losses. Insects feed directly on the plant tissues, while the pathogens lead to damage or death of the plant. Plants have evolved a certain degree of resistance through the production of defence compounds, which may be aproteic, e.g. antibiotics, alkaloids, terpenes, cyanogenic glucosides or proteic, e.g. chitinases, beta-1,3-glucanases, lectins, arcelins, vicilins, systemins and enzyme inhibitors. The enzyme inhibitors impede digestion through their action on insect gut digestive alpha-amylases and proteinases, which play a key role in the digestion of plant starch and proteins. The natural defences of crop plants may be improved through the use of transgenic technology. Current research in the area focuses particularly on weevils as these are highly dependent on starch for their energy supply. Six different alpha-amylase inhibitor classes, lectin-like, knottin-like, cereal-type, Kunitz-like, gamma-purothionin-like and thaumatin-like could be used in pest control. These classes of inhibitors show remarkable structural variety leading to different modes of inhibition and different specificity profiles against diverse alpha-amylases. Specificity of inhibition is an important issue as the introduced inhibitor must not adversely affect the plant's own alpha-amylases, nor the nutritional value of the crop. Of particular interest are some bifunctional inhibitors with additional favourable properties, such as proteinase inhibitory activity or chitinase activity. The area has benefited from the recent determination of many structures of alpha-amylases, inhibitors and complexes. These structures highlight the remarkable variety in structural modes of alpha-amylase inhibition. The continuing discovery of new classes of alpha-amylase inhibitor ensures that exciting discoveries remain to be made. In this review, we summarize existing knowledge of insect alpha-amylases, plant alpha-amylase inhibitors and their interaction. Positive results recently obtained for transgenic plants and future prospects in the area are reviewed. 
3086670	19860401	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013486 D013487 	Identification and physical characterization of yeast glucoamylase structural genes.	Each one of at least three unlinked STA loci (STA1, STA2 and STA3), in the genome of Saccharomyces diastaticus controls starch hydrolysis by coding for an extracellular glucoamylase. Cloned STA2 sequences were used as hybridization probes to investigate the physical structure of the family of STA genes in the genomes of different Saccharomyces strains. Sta+ strains, each carrying a single genetically defined STA locus, were crossed with a Sta- strain and the segregation behavior of the functional locus (i.e. Sta+) and sequences homologous to a cloned STA2 glucoamylase structural gene at that locus were analyzed. The results indicate that in all strains examined there is a multiplicity of sequences that are homologous to STA2 DNA but that only the functional STA loci contain extensive 5' and 3' homology to each other and can be identified as residing on unique fragments of DNA; that all laboratory yeast strains examined contain extensive regions of the glucoamylase gene sequences at or closely linked to the STA1 chromosomal position; that the STA1 locus contains two distinct glucoamylase gene sequences that are closely linked to each other; and that all laboratory strains examined also contain another ubiquitous sequence that is not allelic to STA1 and is nonfunctional (Sta-), but has retained extensive sequence homology to the 5' end of the cloned STA2 gene. It was also determined that the DEX genes (which control dextrin hydrolysis in S. diastaticus), MAL5 (a gene once thought to control maltose metabolism in yeast) and the STA genes are allelic to each other in the following manner: STA1 and DEX2, STA1 and MAL5, and STA2 and DEX1 and STA3 and DEX3. 
7498435	19951101	Exp._Parasitol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Plasmodium gallinaceum: mosquito peritrophic matrix and the parasite-vector compatibility.	Transmission of malaria parasites occurs by relatively few species of mosquitoes. One proposed mechanism of refractoriness is an inability of certain Plasmodium spp. to cross the peritrophic matrix (PM) in the midgut of an incompatible mosquito. We have tested this hypothesis by studying sporogonic development of Plasmodium gallinaceum in susceptible (Aedes aegypti and Anopheles gambiae G3) and refractory (Anopheles stephensi) mosquito species in the presence and absence of the PM. In the presence of the PM the number of oocytes that developed in A. gambiae G3 was about 20% of that in A. aegypti, whereas no oocysts developed in A. stephensi. To disrupt PM formation we added, to an infectious bloodmeal, either exogenous fungal chitinase or polyoxin D, the latter being a potent inhibitor of chitin synthase. The absence of the PM did not increase the susceptibility of A. aegypti and A. gambiae nor did it make A. stephensi susceptible to P. gallinaceum infection. The data indicate that the PM is not the primary determinant of P. gallinaceum compatibility in these mosquitoes and suggest that determinant(s) of refractoriness occurs after the parasite crosses the mosquito PM. 
20331423	20100325	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 	Isolation and properties of xyloglucanases of Penicillium sp.	Using chromatographic technique, xyloglucanase (XG) A (25 kDa, pI 3.5, 12th glycosyl hydrolase family) was isolated from the enzyme complex secreted by the mycelial fungus Penicillium canescens, and xyloglucanases XG 25 (25 kDa, pI 4.1, 12th glycosyl hydrolase family) and XG 70 (70 kDa, pI 3.5, 74th glycosyl hydrolase family) were isolated from the enzyme complex of Penicillium verruculosum. Properties of the isolated enzymes (substrate specificity, optimal ranges of pH and temperature for enzyme activity and stability, effect of metal ions on catalytic activity) were compared with the properties of xyloglucanases XG 32 of Aspergillus japonicus, XG 78 of Chrysosporium lucknowense, and XG of Trichoderma reesei. The gene xegA encoding XG A of P. canescens was isolated, and the amino acid sequence of the corresponding protein was determined. 
3282514	19880415	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 	Alpha-factor-directed synthesis of Bacillus stearothermophilus alpha-amylase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Promoter and leader sequence of Bacillus stearothermophilus alpha-amylase gene were removed and the gene was joined in-frame to sequences encoding the leader region of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mating pheromone alpha-factor on plasmid p69A (a hybrid of pBR322 and S. cerevisiae 2-microns plasmid). S. cerevisiae cells were transformed with plasmids containing the hybrid genes, obtaining yeast transformants which exhibit a significant extra-cellular amylolytic activity in solid medium, but not in liquid medium. Levels of alpha-amylase activity in solid medium were found to depend on the mode of fusion of the alpha-amylase gene to the alpha-factor leader region. 
9339567	19971027	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Cloning of a gene encoding a putative xylanase with a cellulose-binding domain from Humicola grisea.	We have isolated a genomic clone of a putative xylanase gene (xyn1) from Humicola grisea by using the DNA fragment encoding a cellulose-binding domain of H. grisea cellobiohydrolase 1 as a probe. The translation product of the xyn1 gene predicts a xylanase of 429 amino acids in length, with a cellulose-binding domain in the C-terminus. 
18307344	20080301	J._Am._Chem._Soc.	D016428 D013485 	TMG-chitotriomycin, an enzyme inhibitor specific for insect and fungal beta-N-acetylglucosaminidases, produced by actinomycete Streptomyces anulatus NBRC 13369.	A novel beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase (GlcNAcase) inhibitor named TMG-chitotriomycin (1) was isolated from the culture filtrate of Streptomyces anulatus NBRC13369. The strain produced 1 only when colloidal chitin was used as the sole carbon source in the production medium. The structure of 1 was determined by spectral and constitutive sugar analyses of the corresponding alditol derivatives to be an equilibrated mixture of alpha-d-N,N,N-triMeGlcNH2-(1,4)-beta-d-GlcNAc-(1,4)-beta-d-GlcNAc-(1,4)-d-GlcNAc and its C-2 epimer of the reducing end residue. TMG-chitotriomycin (1) showed potent and selective inhibition of insect and fungal GlcNAcases with no inhibition of mammalian and plant GlcNAcases. In contrast, the known GlcNAcase inhibitor nagstatin potently inhibited all GlcNAcases. It should be emphasized that synthesized d-N,N,N-triMeGlcNH2, which is the component sugar of 1, showed no inhibition of the insect Spodoptera litura GlcNAcase. These results suggest that the (GlcNAc)3 unit positioned at the reducing end of 1 is essential for its enzyme inhibitory activity. The unique inhibitory spectrum of 1 will be useful to study chitinolytic systems and to develop selective fungicides or pesticides. 
10974540	20000907	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Transformation of Endomyces fibuliger based on its gene for orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase.	Endomyces fibuliger is a yeast used in the production of Chinese rice wine. It secretes enzymes such as glucoamylase, alpha-amylase and acid protease. Very little is known of the genetics of E. fibuliger. In order to develop a transformation system for this yeast, orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase mutant strains were obtained and characterized. Transformation of the E. fibuliger ura3 mutant F1 with an integrative plasmid that carried the wild-type URA3 gene of E. fibuliger gave complementation of this mutation. The E. fibuliger gene encodes the orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase enzyme consisting of 266 amino acid residues with a 69.4% sequence identity with orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Our finding that E. fibuliger URA3 complements the ura3 mutation in S. cerevisiae confirms that the URA3 gene of E. fibuliger encodes a protein that exerts a similar function. 
15888348	20050513	J._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 D013486 	The Phanerochaete chrysosporium secretome: database predictions and initial mass spectrometry peptide identifications in cellulose-grown medium.	The white rot basidiomycete, Phanerochaete chrysosporium, employs an array of extracellular enzymes to completely degrade the major polymers of wood: cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin. Towards the identification of participating enzymes, 268 likely secreted proteins were predicted using SignalP and TargetP algorithms. To assess the reliability of secretome predictions and to evaluate the usefulness of the current database, we performed shotgun LC-MS/MS on cultures grown on standard cellulose-containing medium. A total of 182 unique peptide sequences were matched to 50 specific genes, of which 24 were among the secretome subset. Underscoring the rich genetic diversity of P. chrysosporium, identifications included 32 glycosyl hydrolases. Functionally interconnected enzyme groups were recognized. For example, the multiple endoglucanases and processive exocellobiohydrolases observed quite probably attack cellulose in a synergistic manner. In addition, a hemicellulolytic system included endoxylanases, alpha-galactosidase, acetyl xylan esterase, and alpha-l-arabinofuranosidase. Glucose and cellobiose metabolism likely involves cellobiose dehydrogenase, glucose oxidase, and various inverting glycoside hydrolases, all perhaps enhanced by an epimerase. To evaluate the completeness of the current database, mass spectroscopy analysis was performed on a larger and more inclusive dataset containing all possible ORFs. This allowed identification of a previously undetected hypothetical protein and a putative acid phosphatase. The expression of several genes was supported by RT-PCR amplification of their cDNAs. 
16707104	20060519	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Fusarium graminearum on plant cell wall: no fewer than 30 xylanase genes transcribed.	The transcription of a set of 32 putative xylanase genes from Fusarium graminearum was examined by quantitative PCR after growth on different carbon sources (hop cell wall, xylan, xylose, or carboxymethylcellulose). Growing on plant cell wall medium, this fungus displays a great diversity of expression of xylan-related genes, with 30 being induced. A second level of diversity exists because expression patterns can be very different for loci encoding enzymes with the same activity (the same EC number). The wealth of xylan-degrading enzymes and the differential expression confer on the fungus a great flexibility of reaction to variation in its environment. 
18034703	20071124	J._Food_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a thermostable and acidic-tolerable beta-glucanase from aerobic fungi Trichoderma koningii ZJU-T.	An extreme thermostable and acidic tolerable beta-glucanase was isolated and characterized from aerobic fungi Trichoderma koningii ZJU-T. The optimal reaction temperature and pH for the beta-glucanase were 100 degrees C and pH 2.0, respectively. The beta-glucanase showed increased stability at higher temperatures and lower pH values when compared to other beta-glucanases. The optimum conditions for the beta-glucanase stability were found to be pH 4.0 and 80 degrees C. Even subjected to 100 degrees C for 3 h, beta-glucanase activity did not show significant reduction. Moreover, K(+) significantly enhanced beta-glucanase activity at the concentration of 1 mM, while EDTA and other metal ions such as Mg(2+), Mn(2+), Zn(2+), Ca(2+), Fe(2+), Pb(2+), and Fe(3+) inhibited beta-glucanase activity. Denaturants, including sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and mercaptoethanol, also inhibited beta-glucanase activity at a concentration of 5%. However, in the presence of 7 M urea, residual activity of the beta-glucanase still remained 14.5%. 
6470092	19840701	J._Virol._Methods	D003160 D016428 	Purification of particles of subterranean clover red leaf virus using an industrial-grade cellulase.	Particles of two isolates of subterranean clover red leaf virus were purified by a method in which infected plant tissue was digested with an industrial-grade cellulase, Celluclast 2.0 L type X. The yields of virus particles using this enzyme were comparable with those obtained using either of two laboratory-grade cellulases, Cellulase type 1 (Sigma) and Driselase. However, the specific infectivity or aphid transmissibility of the particles purified using Celluclast was 10-100 times greater than those of preparations obtained using laboratory-grade cellulases or no enzyme. The main advantage of using Celluclast is that at present in Australia its cost is only ca. 1% of laboratory-grade cellulases. 
3545316	19860901	Biosci._Rep.	D016428 D013485 	In vitro studies on the subcellular location of glucosidase I and glucosidase II in dog pancreas.	When programmed with yeast prepro-alpha-factor mRNA, the heterologous reticulocyte/dog pancreas translation system synthesizes two pheromone related polypeptides, a cytosolically located primary translation product (pp-alpha-Fcyt, 21 kDa) and a membrane-specific and multiply glycosylated alpha-factor precursor (pp-alpha-F3, 27.5 kDa). Glycosylation of the membrane specific pp-alpha-F3 species is competitively inhibited by synthetic peptides containing the consensus sequence Asn-Xaa-Thr as indicated by a shift of its molecular mass from 27.5 kDa to about 19.5 kDa (pp-alpha-F0), whereas the primary translation product pp-alpha-Fcyt is not affected. Likewise, only the glycosylated pp-alpha-F3 structure is digested by Endo H yielding a polypeptide with a molecular mass between pp-alpha-F0 and pp-alpha-Fcyt. These observations strongly suggest that the primary translation product is proteolytically processed during/on its translocation into the lumen of the microsomal vesicles. We believe that this proteolytic processing is due to the cleavage of a signal sequence from the pp-alpha-Fcyt species, although this interpretation contradicts previous data from other groups. The distinct effect exerted by various glycosidase inhibitors (e.g. 1-deoxynojirimycin, N-methyl-dNM, 1-deoxymannojirimycin) on the electrophoretic mobility of the pp-alpha-F3 polypeptide indicates that its oligosaccharide chains are processed to presumably Man9-GlcNAc2 structures under the in vitro conditions of translation. This oligosaccharide processing is most likely to involve the action of glucosidase I and glucosidase II as follows from the specificity of the glycosidase inhibitors applied and the differences of the molecular mass observed in their presence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
21748815	20110713	Protein_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Cleavage of cellulose by a CBM33 protein.	Bacterial proteins categorized as family 33 carbohydrate-binding modules (CBM33) were recently shown to cleave crystalline chitin, using a mechanism that involves hydrolysis and oxidation. We show here that some members of the CBM33 family cleave crystalline cellulose as demonstrated by chromatographic and mass spectrometric analyses of soluble products released from Avicel or filter paper on incubation with CelS2, a CBM33-containing protein from Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2). These enzymes act synergistically with cellulases and may thus become important tools for efficient conversion of lignocellulosic biomass. Fungal proteins classified as glycoside hydrolase family 61 that are known to act synergistically with cellulases are likely to use a similar mechanism. 
17365652	20070317	Med._Mycol.	D016428 D052060 	Induction of a high affinity fibronectin receptor in Candida albicans by caspofungin: requirements for beta (1,6) glucans and the developmental regulator Hbr1p.	Candida albicans expresses at least two biochemically distinct fibronectin receptors. Hemoglobin induces expression of a low affinity receptor recognizing the fibronectin cell-binding domain, whereas growth in complex media induces a high affinity receptor recognizing the collagen-binding domain. We now show that sub-inhibitory concentrations of caspofungin and nikkomycin Z, but not fluconazole, induce the high affinity fibronectin receptor in a dose-dependent manner. Macromolecular complexes mechanically sheared from caspofungin-treated cells retained high affinity fibronectin binding that was sensitive to protease, disulfide reduction, and beta (1,3) glucanase digestion. The high affinity fibronectin receptor was not inducible in a Kre9 mutant strain of C. albicans deficient in beta (1,6) glucans. Conversely, a mutant strain lacking the fibronectin binding protein Als5p showed no defects in induction of high or low affinity fibronectin receptors. Heterozygous mutants of a regulator of white-opaque phenotypic switching, HBR1, lacked any detectable high affinity fibronectin receptor expression in response to caspofungin, and re-introduction of the gene restored activity. Therefore, sub-inhibitory dosages of caspofungin induce a high affinity fibronectin receptor that is distinct from the known receptor Als5p and is dependent on beta (1,6) glucans and HBR1. 
3106330	19870501	J._Bacteriol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Gene fusion is a possible mechanism underlying the evolution of STA1.	DNA from the STA1 (extracellular glucoamylase) gene of Saccharomyces diastaticus was used as a probe to enable the cloning by colony hybridization of three DNA fragments from Saccharomyces cerevisiae; these were designated S1, S2, and SGA (intracellular, sporulation-specific glucoamylase gene). To examine the evolutionary relationship among these sequences at the nucleotide level, we sequenced S2, S1, SGA and compared them with STA1. These data and RNA blot analysis revealed that the following regions of STA1 were highly conserved in S2, S1, and SGA: upstream regulatory sequences responsible for transcription, a signal sequence for protein secretion, a threonine- and serine-rich domain, and a catalytic domain for glucoamylase activity. These results suggest that an ancestral STA gene was generated relatively recently in an evolutionary time scale by the sequential fusions of S2, S1, and SGA, with S1 functioning as a connector for S2 and SGA. We describe a model for the involvement of short nucleotide sequences flanking the junctions in the gene fusions. 
15118335	20040501	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Thr/Ser-rich domain of Aspergillus glucoamylase is essential for secretion.	The recombinant Aspergillus awamori strain carrying the mutant glucoamylase-encoding gene in which the entire Thr/Ser-rich Gp-I domain was deleted abolished secretion of mutant glucoamylase. The transcription of the Bip-encoding bipA was low in the wild type (wt) strain, but elevated in the recombinant strain under the condition of glaA expression. The results indicate that the Gp-I domain is vital for glucoamylase secretion. 
10650215	20000129	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of acidic endo-polygalacturonase encoded by the PGL1-1 gene from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The PGL1 gene of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been shown to encode polygalacturonase. Cloning of the PGL1 open reading frame behind the ADH1 promoter allowed overexpression of polygalacturonase activity in S. cerevisiae. This enzyme was purified to apparent homogeneity from cultures of recombinant S. cerevisiae on synthetic medium using one-step purification by anionic exchange chromatography. The enzyme, named Pgl1P, had an apparent M(r) of 42 kDa as shown by SDS-PAGE. Pgl1P was active from pH 3 to 5.5, with an optimum temperature at 25 degrees C. This enzyme hydrolyzed polygalacturonic acid as an endo-polygalacturonase as demonstrated by independent methods. The purified protein was N-glycosylated. However, the activity remained in the N-deglycosylated form. The N-terminal amino acid sequence was also determined as D-S-C-T-L-T-G-S-S-L. 
19442518	20090516	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of multi-functional cellulase gene mfc in Coprinus cinereus under control of different basidiomycete promoters.	Multi-functional cellulase gene mfc was expressed in Coprinus cinereus under naturally non-inductive conditions using three heterologous promoters. Endo-beta-1,4-glucanase expression was achieved in solid and liquid media with promoter sequences from the Lentinula edodesgpd gene, the Flammulina velutipes gpd gene and the Volvariella volvaceagpd gene. As measured by enzyme activity in liquid cultures, a 613-bp gpd promoter fragment from L. edodes was most efficient, followed by a 752-bp gpd fragment from F. velutipes. The V. volvacea gpd promoter sequence was less active, in comparison. Irrespective of the promoter used, enzymatic activities increase 34-fold for highly active transformants and 29-fold for less active one by using cellulase-inducing medium. The highest activities of endo-beta-1,4-glucanase (34.234 U/ml) and endo-beta-1,4-xylanase (263.695 U/ml) were reached by using the L. edodesgpd promoter. 
15530744	20041109	Vet._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Physiological and genetic characterisation of some new Aphanomyces strains isolated from freshwater crayfish.	Five Aphanomyces strains were isolated during suspected outbreaks of crayfish disease in Spain and Italy. Genetic and physiological evidence show that the strains isolated from the freshwater crayfish Procambarus clarkii and Pacifastacus leniusculus, do not fit into any previously identified group of Aphanomyces astaci and are not capable of killing crayfish following standardised experimental infection. RAPD-PCR and ITS sequencing analysis show a high degree of similarity between the new isolates, while they are clearly different from the A. astaci reference strains. They do, however, possess some properties, which are commonly associated with parasitic species such as repeated zoospore emergence and the lack of sexual reproduction. The five isolates share some physiological properties i.e. a high growth rate, and germination in response to nutrients and, in contrast to A. astaci, they do not express chitinase constitutively during growth or sporulation. Until their taxonomic status is fully elucidated we suggest that the new isolates be given the tentative species name Aphanomyces repetans. 
23439988	20130227	J_Epithel_Biol_Pharmacol	D016428 	Role of chitotriosidase (chitinase 1) under normal and disease conditions.	Mammalian chitinases belong to the glycosyl hydrolase 18 family based on structural homology and the family includes a large number of bacterial and eukaryotic chitinases. Among the mammalian chitinases, chitotriosidase (CHIT1) and acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase) are capable of hydrolyzing the β-(1, 4)-linkage between the adjacent N-acetyl glucosamine residues of chitin. CHIT1 is one of the most abundantly secreted proteins, being mainly produced by activated macrophages and epithelial cells. CHIT1 plays a pivotal role in the context of infectious disease including malaria and fungi infections as a host defense towards chitin in pathogen's cell structure and as a diagnostic marker of disease. In contrast, CHI1 released by activated Kupffer cells in liver could induce hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis. Increased serum levels of CHIT1 were observed in patients with many disorders, including Gaucher's disease, bronchial asthma, and atherosclerosis. Therefore, CHIT1 seems to have dual (regulatory and pathogenic) roles depending on the disease and producing cell types during the inflammatory conditions. 
20219710	20100312	N_Biotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Production optimization and properties of beta glucosidases from a marine fungus Aspergillus-SA 58.	Aspergillus strain SA 58, showing considerable beta glucosidase production was selected as the potential strain. The fungus showed enzyme production in both acidic and alkaline pH. A temperature of 35 degrees C was found to be optimum for enzyme production. Maximum enzyme production was seen when pectin was used as the carbon source (80 U/ml). In solid-state fermentation, an enzyme production of 6200 U/g Initial Dry Substrate was noted. The strain produced two extra cellular enzymes and two intra cellular enzymes. For both the extra cellular enzymes (BGL A and BGL B), 60 degrees C was found to be optimum temperature for activity. BGL A showed an optimum pH of 4.0 while BGL B showed an optimum pH of 3.0 for activity. Both the enzymes showed a second peak of activity at pH 9.0. Both BGL A and BGL B showed high thermal stabilities with residual activities of 86% and 85% even after 6h of incubation at 50 degrees C. 
12354948	19901001	Plant_Cell	D016428 	Activation of a Bean Chitinase Promoter in Transgenic Tobacco Plants by Phytopathogenic Fungi.	The temporal and spatial expression of a bean chitinase promoter has been investigated in response to fungal attack. Analysis of transgenic tobacco plants containing a chimeric gene composed of a 1.7-kilobase fragment carrying the chitinase 5B gene promoter fused to the coding region of the gus A gene indicated that the chitinase promoter is activated during attack by the fungal pathogens Botrytis cinerea, Rhizoctonia solani, and Sclerotium rolfsii. Although induction of [beta]-glucuronidase activity was observed in tissues that had not been exposed to these phytopathogens, the greatest induction occurred in and around the site of fungal infection. The increase in [beta]-glucuronidase activity closely paralleled the increase in endogenous tobacco chitinase activity produced in response to fungal infection. Thus, the chitinase 5B-gus A fusion gene may be used to analyze the cellular and molecular details of the activation of the host defense system during pathogen attack. 
20455075	20100511	Biodegradation	D016428 	Biodegradation of bisphenol A and its halogenated analogues by Cunninghamella elegans ATCC36112.	Bisphenol A and its halogenated analogues are commonly used industrial chemicals with strong toxicological effects over many organisms. In this study, metabolic fate of bisphenol A and its halogenated analogues were evaluated with Cunninghamella elegans ATCC36112. Bisphenol A and related analogues were rapidly transformed into several metabolites by C. elegans within 2-4 days. Detailed analysis of metabolites reveals that both phase I and II metabolism occurred in C. elegans. Cytochrome P450-dependent hydroxylation was observed in BPA. However, major reaction with bisphenol A and analogues with 1-2 halogen atoms were the formation of glucose-conjugate, not being inhibited by cytochrome P450 inhibitor. Overall metabolic rates decreased with increasing number of substitution at 2- and 6-position of BPA structures, which may be consequences of limited bioavailability or steric hindrance to conjugate-forming reaction. Information from the current study will provide detailed insights over the fungal metabolism of BPA and analogues. 
16283313	20051112	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Diversity of the exoproteome of Fusarium graminearum grown on plant cell wall.	The exoproteome of the fungus Fusarium graminearum grown on glucose and on hop (Humulus lupulus, L.) cell wall has been investigated. The culture medium was found to contain a higher quantity of proteins and the proteins are more diverse when the fungus is grown on cell wall. Using both 1D and 2D electrophoresis followed by mass spectrometry analysis and protein identification based on similarity searches, 84 unique proteins were identified in the cell wall-grown fungal exoproteome. Many are putatively implicated in carbohydrate metabolism, mainly in cell wall polysaccharide degradation. The predicted carbohydrate-active enzymes fell into 24 different enzymes classes, and up to eight different proteins within a same class are secreted. This indicates that fungal metabolism becomes oriented towards synthesis and secretion of a whole arsenal of enzymes able to digest almost the complete plant cell wall. Cellobiohydrolase is one of the only four proteins found both after growth on glucose and on plant cell wall and we propose that this enzyme could act as a sensor of the extracellular environment. Extensive knowledge of this very diverse F. graminearum exoproteome is an important step towards the full understanding of Fusarium/plants interactions. 
24504383	20140208	Planta	D016428 	Polysaccharidases and the control of cell wall elongation.	Avena coleoptile sections were treated with a fraction of a fungal filtrate containing a potent cellulase. Elongation rate was not affected although turgor pressure remained constant and wall extensibility was increased. These data show that the simple weakening of cell walls is not sufficient to promote growth and suggest that endogenous polysaccharidases are not the means by which the growth rate of the coleoptile is regulated.  
17952442	20071024	J._Comp._Physiol._B,_Biochem._Syst._Environ._Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning and characterization of two novel cellulase genes from the mollusc Ampullaria crossean.	Cellulase genes have been reported not only from fungi, bacteria and plant, but also from some invertebrate animals. Here, two cellulase (endo-beta-1,4-glucanase, EC 3.2.1.4) genes, eg27I and eg27II, were cloned from the freshwater snail Ampullaria crossean cDNA using degenerate primers. The nucleotide sequences of the two genes shared 94.5% identity. The open reading frames of both genes consisted of 588 bp, encoding 195 amino acids. Both EG27I and EG27II belong to the glycoside hydrolase family 45, and each lacks a carbohydrate-binding module. The presence of introns demonstrated a eukaryotic origin of the EG27 gene, and, in addition, successful cloning of EG27 cDNA supported endogenous production of EG27 cellulase by Ampullaria crossean. Investigation of the EG27 cDNA from A. crossean will provide further information on GHF45 cellulases. 
19110429	20081227	Curr._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Cuckoo fungus mimics termite eggs by producing the cellulose-digesting enzyme beta-glucosidase.	Insects and fungi share a long history of association in various habitats, including the wood-decomposition niche. Fungal mimicry of termite eggs is one of the most striking evolutionary consequences of insect-fungus association. Termites of the genus Reticulitermes often harbor fungal sclerotia, called "termite balls," along with eggs in nursery chambers, whereby the fungus gains a competitor-free habitat in termite nests. Sophisticated morphological and chemical camouflage are needed for the fungus to mimic termite eggs. However, the mechanism of chemical egg mimicry by the fungus is unknown. Here, we show that the fungus mimics termite eggs chemically by producing the cellulose-digesting enzyme beta-glucosidase. We found that the termite egg-recognition pheromone consists of beta-glucosidase and lysozyme. Both enzymes are major salivary compounds in termites and are also produced in termite eggs. Termite balls were tended by termites only when the fungus produced beta-glucosidase. Our results demonstrated that the overlap of the cellulose digestion niche between termites and the fungus sharing the same chemicals provided the opportunity for the origin of termite egg mimicry by the fungus. This suggests that pheromone compounds might have originally evolved within other life history contexts, only later gaining function in chemical communication. 
7831281	19940901	Protein_Eng.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Effect of amino acid deletions in the O-glycosylated region of Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase.	Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase (GA) contains globular catalytic and starch-binding domains (residues 1-471 and 509-616, respectively). A heavily O-glycosylated sequence comprises two parts. The first (residues 441-471) in the crystal structure wraps around an alpha/alpha-barrel formed by residues 1-440. The second (residues 472-508) is an extended, semi-rigid linker between the two domains. To investigate the functional role of this linker, we made internal deletions to remove residues 466-512 (GA delta 1), 485-512 (GA delta 2) and 466-483 (GA delta 3). GA delta 2 and GA delta 3 were expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae culture supernatants at approximately 60 and 20% the wild-type level, respectively, while GA delta 1 was almost undetectable. Western blots comparing extracellular and intracellular fractions indicated that the region deleted in GA delta 3 was critical for secretion, while the region deleted in GA delta 2 contributed to the production of a stable enzyme structure. The activities of purified GA delta 2 and GA delta 3 on soluble and insoluble starch were similar to those of wild-type GA, indicating that for soluble starch their deletions did not affect the catalytic domain and for insoluble starch the linker does not coordinate the activities of the catalytic and starch-binding domains. The deletions had a significant negative effect on GA delta 2 and GA delta 3 thermostabilities. 
12744465	20030515	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Disruption of Botrytis cinerea pectin methylesterase gene Bcpme1 reduces virulence on several host plants.	The pectinolytic enzyme pectin methylesterase (PME) hydrolyses pectin in methanol and polygalacturonic acid. In the expressed sequence tag library of Botrytis cinerea T4, we identified a 1,041 bp Bcpme1 cDNA potentially encoding a 346-amino acid protein of 37 kDa showing 46.8% identity with Aspergillus sp. PMEs. Bcpme1 is a single copy gene and is similarly expressed in glucose and pectin containing media. To evaluate the role of Bcpme1 in Botrytis cinerea virulence, a mutant in Bcpme1 was generated by gene disruption. The Bcpme1 mutant showed similar growth on rich medium but reduced growth on pectin medium. Two isozymes of pI 7.4 and 7.1 were detected in pectin liquid-culture supernatants of wild-type strain Bd90 analyzed by isoelectric focusing-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, while those of Bcpme1 mutant possessed only the pI 7.1 isozyme. BCPME1, the pI 7.4 isozyme, is the major PME activity, as PME activity is 75% reduced in Bcpme1 mutant. Moreover, the Bcpme1 mutant was less virulent on apple fruits, grapevine, and Arabidopsis thaliana leaves. Those phenotypes were complemented by reintroducing a Bcpme1 copy in the Bcpme1 mutant. These results showed that B. cinerea possessed more than one PME-encoding gene and that BCPME1 is an important determinant of B. cinerea virulence. 
17495083	20070515	Poult._Sci.	D016428 D016449 	Effect of a kestose and nystose preparation on growth performance and gastrointestinal tract function of turkeys.	The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of dietary administration of a fructooligosaccharide preparation rich in kestose and nestose on growth performance and gastrointestinal parameters in young turkeys. The kestose and nestose preparation was obtained through bioconversion of sucrose using fungi fructosyl transferase and contained in DM 39.9% of kestose, 17.6% of nystose, as well as 26.5% of glucose and 14.7% of sucrose. Three dietary levels of the sum of kestose and nystose (0.3, 0.6, and 1.2%) were fed to growing turkeys for 8 wk. When compared with the control treatment, addition of the kestose and nestose preparation had no effect on feed intake, feed conversion, and BW. The kestose and nestose-supplemented diet, especially the medium level of kestose and nystose, influenced microbial metabolism, especially in the ceca. Compared with the control group, the medium level of kestose and nestose decreased relative weight of gizzard (from 18.67 to 16.51 g/kg of BW) and weight of small intestine tissue (from 23.3 to 19.6 g/kg of BW) and increased weight of ceca digesta (from 3.51 to 4.77 g/kg of BW) as well as activities of microbial beta-glucosidase (an increase from 0.22 to 0.38 U/g) and alpha-galactosidase (an increase from 0.90 to 1.61 U/g), pH of digesta (a decrease from 6.13 to 5.79), concentration of NH3 (an increase from 0.60 to 0.98 mg/g), and concentration of total short-chain fatty acids (an increase from 81.1 to 107.7 micromol/g) in the cecal digesta. A high content of kestose and nestose in the diet caused a decrease in ileal and cecal pH (to 5.42 and 5.49, respectively). 
16366715	20051222	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Determination of the secondary structure of Kluyveromyces lactis beta-galactosidase by circular dichroism and its structure-activity relationship as a function of the pH.	The secondary structure of Kluyveromyces lactis beta-galactosidase was determined by circular dichroism. It is mainly a beta-type protein, having 22% beta-turns, 14% parallel beta-sheet, 25% antiparallel beta-sheet, 34% unordered structure, and only 5% alpha-helix. The structure-activity relationship as a function of the pH was also studied. The pH conditions leading to the highest secondary structure content (100% ellipticity) of the enzyme was found at pH 7.0; at pH 6.5-7.0, the percent ellipticity decreased slightly, suggesting little structural change, but the activity decreased significantly, probably because of variations in critical residues. On the other hand, at pH's above 7.0, a more noticeable change in ellipticity was observed due to structural changes; the CD analysis showed a small increase in the helical content toward higher pH, whereas the maximum activity was found at pH 7.5, meaning that the changes produced in the secondary structure at this pH favored the interaction between the enzyme and the substrate. 
8770584	19960101	Genetics	D016428 	Removal of Mig1p binding site converts a MAL63 constitutive mutant derived by interchromosomal gene conversion to glucose insensitivity.	Maltose fermenting strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae have one or more complex loci called MAL. Each locus comprises at least three genes: MALx1 encodes maltose permease, MALx2 encodes maltase, and MALx3 encodes an activator of MALx1 and MALx2 (x denotes one of five MAL loci, with x = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 6). The MAL43c allele is constitutive and relatively insensitive to glucose repression. To understand better this unique phenotype of MAL43c, we have isolated several MAL63c constitutive mutants from a MAL6 strain. All constitutive mutants remain glucose repressible, and all have multiple amino acid substitutions in the C-terminal region, now making this region of Mal63cp similar to that of Mal43cp. These changes have been generated by gene conversion, which transfers DNA from the telomeres of chromosome II and chromosome III or XVI to chromosome VIII (MAL6). The removal of a Mig1p binding site from the MAL63c promoter leads to a loss of glucose repression, imitating the phenotype of MAL43c. Conversely, addition of a Mig1p binding site to the promoter of MAL43c converts it to glucose sensitivity. Mig1p modulation of Mal63p and Mal43p expression therefore plays a substantial role in glucose repression of the MAL genes. 
11356572	20010518	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Mobilisation of trehalose in mutants of the cyclic AMP signalling pathway, cr-1 (CRISP-1) and mcb (microcycle conidiation), of Neurospora crassa.	The influence of the cAMP-signalling pathway on the metabolism of trehalose in Neurospora crassa was investigated. The changes in intracellular trehalose concentration were measured in two mutants affected in components of the cAMP-signalling pathway: cr-1 (crisp-1), deficient in adenylyl cyclase activity, and mcb (microcyclic conidiation), deficient in the regulatory subunit of PKA. Rapid mobilisation of intracellular trehalose in the wild-type occurred, either at the onset of germination, or after a heat shock, and by carbon starvation. Mutant cr-1 failed to mobilise trehalose at germination, but behaved almost normally after a heat shock, or during carbon starvation. On the other hand, the levels of trehalose in mcb fell to values much lower than in the wild-type at germination, but accumulated trehalose normally during a heat shock. These results are consistent with the involvement of cAMP in the activation of the neutral trehalase at the onset of germination. However, the control of the enzyme under the other physiological conditions which also promote mobilisation of intracellular trehalose was apparently independent of cAMP-signalling. 
3521491	19860401	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Polysaccharide lyases.	Polysaccharide lyases (or eliminases) are a class of enzymes (EC 4.2.2.-) that act to cleave certain activated glycosidic linkages present in acidic polysaccharides. These enzymes act through an eliminase mechanism, rather than through hydrolysis, resulting in unsaturated oligosaccharide products. Acidic polysaccharides are ubiquitous and so are the lyases that degrade them. This review article examines lyases that act on acidic polysaccharides of plant, animal, and microbial origin. These lyases are predominantly of microbial origin and come from a wide variety of both pathogenic and nonpathogenic bacteria and fungi. The lyases discussed include alginate lyase (EC 4.2.2.3), pectin lyase (EC 4.2.2.10), pectate lyase (EC 4.2.2.2), oligogalacturonide lyase (EC 4.2.2.6), exopolygalacturonate lyase (EC 4.2.2.9), chondroitin lyases (EC 4.2.2.4 and EC 4.2.2.5), hyaluronate lyase (EC 4.2.2.1), heparin lyase (EC 4.2.2.7), heparan lyase (EC 4.2.2.8), and other unclassified lyases. This review examines the sources, regulation, purification, and properties of these polysaccharide lyases. 
8508770	19930601	EMBO_J.	D016428 D013487 	Translational repression of brlA expression prevents premature development in Aspergillus.	The Aspergillus nidulans brlA developmental regulatory locus consists of two overlapping transcription units, brlA alpha and brlA beta, which encode functionally related polypeptides. We used translational fusions between each of the predicted brlA reading frames and the Escherichia coli lacZ gene to test the hypothesis that developmental regulation of brlA alpha and brlA beta expression occurs through different mechanisms. brlA alpha is transcriptionally controlled and a large portion of brlA alpha-directed beta-galactosidase activity is regulated in a brlA-dependent manner. In contrast, brlA beta mRNA is constitutively transcribed but translation of the brlA polypeptide is prevented by the presence of a short open reading frame (microORF) present in the 5' end of brlA beta mRNA. Removing the microORF initiation codon leads to deregulated brlA expression, resulting in an inappropriate activation of development. We propose that one mechanism for developmental induction in A.nidulans involves translational control. 
12706511	20030423	Res._Microbiol.	D016428 	Relation between cell wall chitin content and susceptibility to amphotericin B in Kluyveromyces, Candida and Schizosaccharomyces species.	Yeast strains belonging to the genera Candida, Kluyveromyces and Schizosaccharomyces were tested for their susceptibility (or resistance) to amphotericin B (AmB) in relation to their cell wall chitin content. Results showed that membrane sterol contents did not enable us to explain resistance or susceptibility of these yeasts to AmB. Indeed, we noted that resistant strains were as rich in ergosterol as sensitive strains. The suppression of the wall of yeasts induced an increase in susceptibility to AmB. Strains with high cell wall chitin content were more sensitive to this polyenic antifungal agent than strains with low chitin content. Growth of the yeasts in the presence of chitin induced a resistance of the yeasts to AmB. Similar results were obtained after treatment of the cells by chitinase. In contrast, growth of the yeasts in the presence of chitin synthase activators induced high susceptibility to AmB. Yeast cell wall chitin is an aminopolysaccharide, usually at low concentrations. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe its presence was not established. This polymer is associated with glucans in the wall matrix of the lateral wall and in the budding scars. Even at low content, this polymer seems to play an essential role in the sensitivity (or resistance) of yeast cells to AmB. 
12030703	20020528	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of an extracellular exochitinase, beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase, from the fungal mycoparasite Stachybotrys elegans.	The mycoparasite Stachybotrys elegans produces two exo- and one endo-acting chitinases when grown on chitin. We purified to homogeneity one of the exo-acting chitinases, beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase and partially characterized its physical and biochemical properties. The native enzyme has a molecular mass of 120 kDa when determined by gel filtration and 68 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicating that the native protein probably occurs as a dimer in solution. The purified beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase is most active at pH 5.0 and 40 degrees C and hydrolyzes the p-nitrophenyl-N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminide with apparent Km of 84.6 microM. Polyclonal antibodies raised against the 68-kDa beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase (NAG-68) indicated that the antibody is highly specific and recognizes the protein in crude filtrate preparation. This suggests that the protein is a not a proteolytic product of another protein. Western blot analysis showed that the activity of NAG-68 was induced when S. elegans was grown on purified cell wall fragments of its host, Rhizoctonia solani, as well as during antagonistic interaction of the mycoparasite and host when both were grown on synthetic medium with or without supplemental carbon source. 
10564003	19991124	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Production of substrate for galactose oxidase by depolymerization of an arabinogalactan-peptide from wheat flour.	Water extractable arabinogalactan-peptide (WE-AGP) isolated from white wheat flour was depolymerized enzymatically to liberate substrate for a galactose oxidase from Dactylium dendroides. A crude liquid pectolytic preparation from Aspergillus niger (p70) displayed activities capable of converting WE-AGP into a substrate for galactose oxidase. The most favorable substrate was observed when WE-AGP was not fully depolymerized into galactose and arabinose. alpha-L-Arabinofuranosidase B from A. niger was also able to produce substrate from WE-AGP; arabinofuranosidase-treated WE-AGP was a better substrate for galactose oxidase than galactose. Treatment by the crude p70 and purified enzymes showed that alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase was partly responsible for the production of substrate, whereas beta-galactosidase did not result in any substrate production or improve the effect of alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase. However, the positive effect of alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase was increased when p70 was added at the same level of arabinofuranosidase activity, suggesting that additional enzyme activities present in p70 were responsible for production of substrate for galactose oxidase. 
20869235	20100928	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Enhanced saccharification of rice straw and hull by microwave-alkali pretreatment and lignocellulolytic enzyme production.	In this study, statistical design of experiments was employed to plan experiments and optimize the microwave-alkali pretreatment of rice straw and hulls. Process parameters important in pretreatment of biomass were identified by a Plackett-Burman design and the parameters with significant effects were optimized using a box-behnken design (BBD). Experimental results show that alkali concentration (AC), irradiation time (IT) and substrate concentration (SC) were main factors governing the saccharification of rice straw and hulls. Optimum conditions of pretreatment were AC 2.75%, IT 22.50 min and SC 30 g/L, as optimized by BBD. The growth and production of lignocellulolytic enzymes from Aspergillus heteromorphus, solid state fermentation (SSF) was performed using rice straw and hulls pretreated under optimum conditions. Cellulases and xylanase reached the highest enzyme activity at 6th day of fermentation while maximum manganese peroxidase (MnP) and laccase activity occurred at 12th day. 
24186432	20131105	Arch._Insect_Biochem._Physiol.	D016428 D013486 	A GHF7 cellulase from the protist symbiont community of Reticulitermes flavipes enables more efficient lignocellulose processing by host enzymes.	Termites and their gut microbial symbionts efficiently degrade lignocellulose into fermentable monosaccharides. This study examined three glycosyl hydrolase family 7 (GHF7) cellulases from protist symbionts of the termite Reticulitermes flavipes. We tested the hypotheses that three GHF7 cellulases (GHF7-3, GHF7-5, and GHF7-6) can function synergistically with three host digestive enzymes and a fungal cellulase preparation. Full-length cDNA sequences of the three GHF7s were assembled and their protist origins confirmed through a combination of quantitative PCR and cellobiohydrolase (CBH) activity assays. Recombinant versions of the three GHF7s were generated using a baculovirus-insect expression system and their activity toward several model substrates compared with and without metallic cofactors. GHF7-3 was the most active of the three cellulases; it exhibited a combination of CBH, endoglucanase (EGase), and β-glucosidase activities that were optimal around pH 7 and 30°C, and enhanced by calcium chloride and zinc sulfate. Lignocellulose saccharification assays were then done using various combinations of the three GHF7s along with a host EGase (Cell-1), beta-glucosidase (β-glu), and laccase (LacA). GHF7-3 was the only GHF7 to enhance glucose release by Cell-1 and β-glu. Finally, GHF7-3, Cell-1, and β-glu were individually tested with a commercial fungal cellulase preparation in lignocellulose saccharification assays, but only β-glu appreciably enhanced glucose release. Our hypothesis that protist GHF7 cellulases are capable of synergistic interactions with host termite digestive enzymes is supported only in the case of GHF7-3. These findings suggest that not all protist cellulases will enhance saccharification by cocktails of other termite or fungal lignocellulases.  
15595676	20041215	J_Chromatogr_A	D016428 D013485 	Combining gel and capillary electrophoresis, nano-LC and mass spectrometry for the elucidation of post-translational modifications of Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I.	N-Glycosylation of cellobiohydrolase I from the fungus Trichoderma reesei (strain Rut-C30) is studied using a combination of electrophoretic, chromatographic and mass spectrometric techniques. As four potential N-glycosylation sites and several uncharged and phosphorylated high-mannose glycans are present, a large number of glycoforms and phospho-isoforms can be expected. Isoelectric focusing both in gel and in capillary format was successfully applied for the separation of the phospho-isoforms. They were extracted in their intact form from the gel and subsequently analysed by nanospray-Q-TOF-MS, thereby making use of a powerful two-dimensional technique. Nano-LC/MS/MS on a Q-Trap MS further allowed the determination of the glycosylation sites. As a novel approach, an oxonium ion was used in precursor ion scanning for selective detection of glycopeptides containing phosphorylated high-mannose glycans. 
9726860	19980903	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Role of endoproteolytic dibasic proprotein processing in maturation of secretory proteins in Trichoderma reesei.	Cell extracts of Trichoderma reesei exhibited dibasic endopeptidase activity toward the carboxylic side of KR, RR, and PR sequences. This activity was stimulated by the presence of Ca2+ ions and localized in vesicles of low bouyant density; it therefore exhibited some similarity to yeast Kex2. Analytical chromatofocusing revealed a single peak of activity. The dibasic endopeptidase activity was strongly and irreversibly inhibited in vitro as well as in vivo by 1 mM p-amidinophenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (pAPMSF) but not by PMSF at concentrations up to 5 mM. We therefore used pAPMSF to study the role of the dibasic endopeptidase in the secretion of protein by T. reesei. Secretion of xylanase I (proprotein processing sequence -R-R- downward arrow-R- downward arrow-A-) and xylanase II (-K-R- downward arrow-Q-) was strongly inhibited by 1 mM pAPMSF, and a larger, unprocessed enzyme form was detected intracellularly under these conditions. Secretion of cellobiohydrolase II (CBH II; -E-R- downward arrow-Q-) was only slightly inhibited by pAPMSF, and no accumulation of unprocessed precursors was detected. In contrast, secretion of CBH I (-R-A- downward arrow-Q-) was stimulated by pAPMSF addition, and a simultaneous decrease in the concentration of intracellular CBH I was detected. Similar experiments were also carried out with a single heterologous protein, ShBLE, the phleomycin-binding protein from Streptoalloteichus hindustanus, fused to a series of model proprotein-processing sequences downstream of the expression signals of the Aspergillus nidulans gpdA promoter. Consistent with the results obtained with homologous proteins, pAPMSF inhibited the secretion of ShBLE with fusions containing dibasic (RK and KR) target sequences, but it even stimulated secretion in fusions to LR, NHA, and EHA target sequences. Addition of 5 mM PMSF, a nonspecific inhibitor of serine protease, nonspecifically inhibited the secretion of heterologous proteins from fusions bearing the NHA and LR targets. These data point to the existence of different endoproteolytic proprotein processing enzymes in T. reesei and demonstrate that dibasic processing is obligatory for the secretion of the proproteins containing this target. 
8299951	19931231	Gene	D016428 D013487 	Construction of glucose-repressible yeast expression vectors.	A set of two episomal yeast expression vectors, pYME1 and pYME2, were constructed. These Saccharomyces cerevisiae-Escherichia coli shuttle vectors each contain a modified yeast MAL6S (encoding maltase) promoter that is expressed constitutively, but is subject to carbon catabolite repression by glucose. Expression from this promoter is still dependent upon the presence of active MALR (regulatory) protein. These expression vectors are particularly useful because most S. cerevisiae strains are MAL+, thereby exhibiting a wider host range than GAL-based vector systems. These pYME1 and pYME2 vectors are capable of expression to levels comparable to GAL-based expression plasmids and much higher than a variety of other repressible promoter vectors. The vectors are identical, except that their multiple cloning sites (MCS) are in opposite orientations, making them convenient for inserting heterologous genes. 
20422178	20100428	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of Trichoderma reesei cellulases CBHI and EGI in Ashbya gossypii.	To explore the potential of Ashbya gossypii as a host for the expression of recombinant proteins and to assess whether protein secretion would be more similar to the closely related Saccharomyces cerevisiae or to other filamentous fungi, endoglucanase I (EGI) and cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI) from the fungus Trichoderma reesei were successfully expressed in A. gossypii from plasmids containing the two micron sequences from S. cerevisiae, under the S. cerevisiae PGK1 promoter. The native signal sequences of EGI and CBHI were able to direct the secretion of EGI and CBHI into the culture medium in A. gossypii. Although CBHI activity was not detected using 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D: -lactoside as substrate, the protein was detected by Western blot using monoclonal antibodies. EGI activity was detectable, the specific activity being comparable to that produced by a similar EGI producing S. cerevisiae construct. More EGI was secreted than CBHI, or more active protein was produced. Partial characterization of CBHI and EGI expressed in A. gossypii revealed overglycosylation when compared with the native T. reesei proteins, but the glycosylation was less extensive than on cellulases expressed in S. cerevisiae. 
23365723	20130201	Enzyme_Res	D016428 	Production of Biomass-Degrading Multienzyme Complexes under Solid-State Fermentation of Soybean Meal Using a Bioreactor.	Biomass-degrading enzymes are one of the most costly inputs affecting the economic viability of the biochemical route for biomass conversion into biofuels. This work evaluates the effects of operational conditions on biomass-degrading multienzyme production by a selected strain of Aspergillus niger. The fungus was cultivated under solid-state fermentation (SSF) of soybean meal, using an instrumented lab-scale bioreactor equipped with an on-line automated monitoring and control system. The effects of air flow rate, inlet air relative humidity, and initial substrate moisture content on multienzyme (FPase, endoglucanase, and xylanase) production were evaluated using a statistical design methodology. Highest production of FPase (0.55 IU/g), endoglucanase (35.1 IU/g), and xylanase (47.7 IU/g) was achieved using an initial substrate moisture content of 84%, an inlet air humidity of 70%, and a flow rate of 24 mL/min. The enzymatic complex was then used to hydrolyze a lignocellulosic biomass, releasing 4.4 g/L of glucose after 36 hours of saccharification of 50 g/L pretreated sugar cane bagasse. These results demonstrate the potential application of enzymes produced under SSF, thus contributing to generate the necessary technological advances to increase the efficiency of the use of biomass as a renewable energy source. 
17213655	20070111	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Gene silencing by RNA interference in the koji mold Aspergillus oryzae.	We found the orthologous genes required for RNA interference (RNAi) in the Aspergillus oryzae genome database, and constructed a set of tools for gene silencing using RNAi in A. oryzae. This system utilizes compatible restriction enzyme sites so that only a single target gene fragment is required to create the hairpin RNA cassette. For ease of handling, we also separated the construction of the hairpin RNA cassette for the target gene from its subsequent introduction into the expression vector. Using the brlA gene as a target for RNAi, we detected decreased mRNA levels and a delayed conidiation phenotype in the transformants. Furthermore, even though A. oryzae possesses three copies of the alpha-amylase gene, a single copy of an alpha-amylase RNAi construct was sufficient to downregulate the mRNA levels and decrease the enzymatic activity to 10% of control levels. Gene silencing by RNAi should provide a powerful genetic tool for post-genomic studies of the industrially important fungus A. oryzae. 
8923734	19961001	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Genetic aspects of carbon catabolite repression of the STA2 glucoamylase gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Three regulatory genes, known to be required for glucose repression/derepression of some genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, were disrupted to study their effects on the carbon-source regulation of the STA2 glucoamylase gene expression. Using a STA2-lacZ fusion it was found that: (1) the MIG1 gene is dispensable for the repression of the STA2 gene; (2) there are two components in the carbon-source repression of STA2: HXK2-dependent and HXK2-independent; and (3) the HAP2 gene seems to be involved in repression rather than activation of the STA2 expression. 
11914491	20020327	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Determination of the structure of an endoglucanase from Aspergillus niger and its mode of inhibition by palladium chloride.	The fungus Aspergillus niger is a main source of industrial cellulase. beta-1,4-Endoglucanase is the major component of cellulase from A. niger. In spite of widespread applications, little is known about the structure of this enzyme. Here, the structure of beta-1,4-endoglucanase from A. niger (EglA) was determined at 2.1 A resolution. Although there is a low sequence identity between EglA and CelB2, another member of family 12, the three-dimensional structures of their core regions are quite similar. The structural differences are mostly found in the loop regions, where CelB2 has an extra beta-sheet (beta-sheet C) at the non-reducing end of the binding cleft of the native enzyme. Incubation of EglA with PdCl(2) irreversibly inhibits the EglA activity. Structural studies of the enzyme-palladium complex show that three Pd(2+) ions bind to each EglA molecule. One of the Pd(2+) ions forms a coordinate covalent bond with Met118 S(delta) and the nucleophilic Glu116 O(epsilon1) at the active site of the enzyme. The other two Pd(2+) ions bind on the surface of the protein. Binding of Pd(2+) ions to EglA does not change the general conformation of the backbone of the protein significantly. Based on this structural study, one can conclude that the palladium ion directly binds to and blocks the active site of EglA and thus inactivates the enzyme. 
20446042	20100507	Mycopathologia	D016428 	Characterization of Pseudomonas aeruginosa RM-3 as a potential biocontrol agent.	Molecular characterization of rhizobacterial isolate RM-3, based on sequencing of a partial 1,313-bp fragment of 16S rDNA amplicon, validated the strain as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The strain showed significant growth inhibition of different phytopathogenic fungi in dual plate and liquid culture assays. Maximum growth inhibition was found in case of Macrophomina phaseolina in plate assay (68%), whereas it was 93% in Dreschlera graminae in dual liquid assay. Microscopic studies (light and scanning electron) showed morphological abnormalities such as perforation, fragmentation, swelling, shriveling and lysis of hyphae of pathogenic fungi. The strain also exhibited production of siderophore and hydrogen cyanide (HCN) on chrome azurol S and King's B media, respectively. Besides, this strain also produced extracellular chitinase enzyme and an important antibiotic, phenazine. Seed bacterization with RM-3 showed a significant (P < 0.05) increase in seed germination, shoot length, shoot fresh and dry weight, root length, root fresh and dry weight and leaf area. It was also able to colonize the rhizosphere of plants and reduced percent disease incidence in M. phaseolina-infested soil by 83%. Yield parameters such as pods, number of seeds and grain yield per plant also enhanced significantly (P < 0.05) in comparison to control. Thus, the secondary metabolites producing Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain RM-3 exhibited innate potential of plant growth promotion and biocontrol potential in vitro and in vivo. 
10446355	19990814	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 D016454 	alpha-1,4-glucan lyases producing 1,5-anhydro-D-fructose from starch and glycogen have sequence similarity to alpha-glucosidases.	In the past few years a novel enzyme alpha-1,4-glucan lyase (EC 4.2. 2.13), which releases 1,5-anhydrofructose from starch and glycogen, has been cloned and characterized from red algae and fungi. Accumulated evidence indicates that the lytic degradation of starch and glycogen also occurs in other organisms. The present review focuses on the biochemical and molecular aspects of eight known alpha-1,4-glucan lyases and their genes from red algae and fungi. While the amino acid sequence identity is 75-80% among the alpha-1, 4-glucan lyases from each of the taxonomic groups, the identity between the algal and fungal alpha-1,4-glucan lyases is only 25-28%. Notably database searches disclosed that the alpha-1,4-glucan lyases have a clear identity of 23-28% with alpha-glucosidases of glycoside hydrolase family 31, thus for the first time linking enzymes from the class of hydrolases with that of lyases. The alignment of lyases and alpha-glucosidases revealed seven well-conserved regions, three of which have been reported to be involved in catalysis and substrate binding in alpha-glucosidases. The shared substrate and inhibitor specificity and sequence similarity of alpha-1,4-glucan lyases with alpha-glucosidases suggest that related structural elements are involved in the two different catalytic mechanisms. 
9055404	19970301	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning, structural analysis, and expression in Escherichia coli of a chitinase gene from Enterobacter agglomerans.	The gene chiA, which codes for endochitinase, was cloned from a soilborne Enterobacter agglomerans. Its complete sequence was determined, and the deduced amino acid sequence of the enzyme designated Chia_Entag yielded an open reading frame coding for 562 amino acids of a 61-kDa precursor protein with a putative leader peptide at its N terminus. The nucleotide and polypeptide sequences of Chia_Entag showed 86.8 and 87.7% identity with the corresponding gene and enzyme, Chia_Serma, of Serratia marcescens, respectively. Homology modeling of Chia_Entag's three-dimensional structure demonstrated that most amino acid substitutions are at solvent-accessible sites. Escherichia coli JM109 carrying the E. agglomerans chiA gene produced and secreted Chia_Entag. The antifungal activity of the secreted endochitinase was demonstrated in vitro by inhibition of Fusarium oxysporum spore germination. The transformed strain inhibited Rhizoctonia solani growth on plates and the root rot disease caused by this fungus in cotton seedlings under greenhouse conditions. 
10650194	20000129	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D016454 	Cellulase-free xylanases from Bacillus and other microorganisms.	Xylanases are used mainly in the pulp and paper industries for the pretreatment of Kraft pulp prior to bleaching to minimize use of chlorine, the conventional bleaching agent. This application has great potential as an environmentally safe method. Hydrolysis by xylanases of relocated and reprecipitated xylan on the surface of cellulose fibres formed during Kraft cooking facilitates the removal of lignin by increasing permeability to oxidising agents. Most of the xylanases reported in the literature contained significant cellulolytic activity, which make them less suitable for pulp and paper industries. The need for large quantities of xylanases which would be stable at higher temperatures and pH values and free of cellulase activity has necessitated a search for novel enzymes. We have isolated and characterised several xylanase-producing cultures, one of which (an alkalophilic Bacillus SSP-34) produced more than 100 IU ml(-1) of xylanase activity. The SSP-34 xylanases have optimum activity at 50 degrees C in a pH range 6-8, with only small amounts of cellulolytic activity (CMCase (0.4 IU ml(-1), pH 7), FPase (0.2 IU ml(-1), pH 7) and no activity at pH 9). 
5892589	19651201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Trehalose as an endogenous reserve in spores of the fungus Myrothecium verrucaria.	Mandels, G. R. (U.S. Army Natick Laboratories, Natick, Mass.), Rasma Vitols, and Frederick W. Parrish. Trehalose as an endogenous reserve in spores of the fungus Myrothecium verrucaria. J. Bacteriol. 90:1589-1598. 1965.-Gross analysis of Myrothecium verrucaria spores showed approximately 3% fat, 33% carbohydrate, and 9.5% nitrogen. The water-soluble carbohydrates were trehalose, glucose, mannitol, and an unidentified phosphorylated compound. Water-soluble amino acids include leucine or norleucine (or both), valine, gamma-amino-n-butyric acid, beta-amino-n-butyric acid, ergothionine, glutamic acid, glutamine, glycine, aspartic acid, asparagine, cystine, and cystathionine. Ergosterol was also present. alphaalpha-Trehalose is the major reserve (20% of the dry weight), although approximately 30% of it appeared to be at the spore surface and was released by nonlethal treatment with 0.1 n HCl. Treatment with toluene or exposure to heat sufficient to kill the spores (20 min at 60 C) caused rapid liberation of all of the trehalose. Although spores could utilize exogenous trehalose with no appreciable lag, some stimulus, such as exposure to heat (10 min at 55 C), incubation with azide, or germination on exogenous substrates, was necessary to effect utilization of trehalose reserves. Spores have trehalase, but it is apparently at the spore surface, since it is inactivated by acid treatment which does not kill the spores. The metabolic pathway for utilization of trehalose is not known, but presumably it is not mediated by trehalase. The involvement of mannitol is indicated, since it tends to increase as trehalose decreases, although the changes are not quantitatively equivalent. 
9625699	19980625	Plant_Physiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Coordinate accumulation of antifungal proteins and hexoses constitutes a developmentally controlled defense response during fruit ripening in grape.	During ripening of grape (Vitis labruscana L. cv Concord) berries, abundance of several proteins increased, coordinately with hexoses, to the extent that these became the predominant proteins in the ovary. These proteins have been identified by N-terminal amino acid-sequence analysis and/or function to be a thaumatin-like protein (grape osmotin), a lipid-transfer protein, and a basic and an acidic chitinase. The basic chitinase and grape osmotin exhibited activities against the principal grape fungal pathogens Guignardia bidwellii and Botrytis cinerea based on in vitro growth assays. The growth-inhibiting activity of the antifungal proteins was substantial at levels comparable to those that accumulate in the ripening fruit, and these activities were enhanced by as much as 70% in the presence of 1 m glucose, a physiological hexose concentration in berries. The simultaneous accumulation of the antifungal proteins and sugars during berry ripening was correlated with the characteristic development of pathogen resistance that occurs in fruits during ripening. Taken together, accumulation of these proteins, in combination with sugars, appears to constitute a novel, developmentally regulated defense mechanism against phytopathogens in the maturing fruit. 
15684295	20050203	Eur._Respir._J.	D016428 	The changing distribution of occupational asthma: a survey of supermarket bakery workers.	In the UK, since the mid 1980s, supermarkets have accounted for an increasing volume of bread production. Occupational asthma among employees who produce bread from raw ingredients in supermarkets has not been previously investigated. A cross-sectional survey was undertaken involving 239 (71%) employees from 20 different supermarket bakeries. The work-related symptoms were investigated by using questionnaires and measuring the radioallergosorbent test serum-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)E to flour and fungal alpha-amylase. A total of 89 employees underwent whole-shift personal measurement of dust exposure. The geometric mean dust exposure for bakers was 1.2 mg x m(-3), which was higher than for other bakery employees. A total of 37 (15%) employees also reported work-related chest symptoms. Serum IgE to flour was present in 24 (11%) employees and to fungal alpha-amylase in nine (4%) employees. The combination of work-related chest symptoms and specific IgE was found in six (9%) bakers, one (4%) manager and two (3%) assistants. One-quarter of all employees, but half of bakers and managers, had previously worked for different, mainly small, bakeries. This population of bakery workers has important levels of sensitisation and work-related respiratory symptoms, despite low levels of dust exposure. Changes in the location and process of bread manufacture have led to a change in the distribution of bakers' asthma in the UK. 
11010922	20000930	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Antisense silencing of the creA gene in Aspergillus nidulans.	Antisense expression of a portion of the gene encoding the major carbon catabolite repressor CREA in Aspergillus nidulans resulted in a substantial increase in the levels of glucose-repressible enzymes, both endogenous and heterologous, in the presence of glucose. The derepression effect was approximately one-half of that achieved in a null creA mutant. Unlike results for that mutant, however, growth parameters and colony morphology in the antisense transformants were not affected. 
21485035	20110413	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Novel Aspergillus hemicellulases enhance performance of commercial cellulases in lignocellulose hydrolysis.	A novel hemicellulase-producing fungal strain was isolated from a local soil sample. The organism is identified as Aspergillus fumigatus based on ribosomal RNA analyses. The Aspergillus strain, designated as 2NB, produces both enzymes acting on xylan backbone (xylanase and β-xylosidase), and those acting on side chains (or accessory enzymes) notably α-arabinofuranosidase and acetyl-xylan esterase. The Asperigillus hemicellulases are characterized as having relatively low xylanase and β-xylosidase activities but high side chain removal activities. The activity ratio of side-chain acting enzymes to xylanase is higher than that of the Multifect enzyme, a commercial hemicellulase product. The potential of the novel hemicellulases in lignocelluloses bioprocessing was demonstrated with alkaline-pretreated switchgrass as lignocellulose substrate with hemicellulase supplemented with a ratio of xylanase activity to filter paper unit of 2:1. Supplement of Aspergillus hemicellulases to commercial cellulases significantly enhanced the hydrolysis of lignocellulose, achieving a 94% hydrolysis yield based on reducing sugar measurement, compared to 60% when no hemicellulase or 75% when Multifect enzyme was used under otherwise identical conditions. The significant improvement resulting from supplementing a hemicellulase mix with high side-chain removal activities suggests the importance of accessory hemicellulases in lignocellulose processing. 
22209489	20120103	Bioorg._Med._Chem._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Study on binding modes between cellobiose and β-glucosidases from glycoside hydrolase family 1.	The hydrolysis of cellobiose by β-glucodisases is an important step of cellulose biodegradation. However, the interactive mechanism between cellobiose and β-glucosidases is still unclear until now. Thus, in this study, we explored the binding modes between cellobiose and three β-glucosidases from glycoside hydrolase family 1 by means of molecular docking. The three β-glucosidases were named as TmGH1 (from bacterium Thermotoga), SsGH1 (from archaea Sulfolobus solfataricus) and TrGH1 (from fungus Trichoderma reesei) respectively, according to the monophyletic groups they belong to. Molecular dockings were performed between cellobiose and the three β-glucosidases, resulting in three optimum docking complexes, that is TmGH1-cellobiose, SsGH1-cellobiose and TrGh1-cellobiose complexes. Our docking results indicated that there were non-bonded interactions between cellobiose and the three β-glucosidases. The binding affinities of the three complexes were -13.6669kJ/mol, -13.2973kJ/mol and -18.6492kJ/mol, respectively. Then the detailed interactions were investigated, which revealed the key amino acid residues interacted with cellobiose by hydrogen bonds (H-bonds) or hydrophobic interactions. It was observed that most of the key residues involved in the non-bonded interactions were equivalent and conserved for the three complexes, and these residues were a glutamine, a histidine, a tyrosine, a phenylalanine, three glutamics, and four tryptophans. This information is of great importance for designing β-glucosidase with higher cellobiose-hydrolyzing efficiency. 
8595591	19960101	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of a beta-glucosidase from solid-state cultures of Humicola grisea var. thermoidea.	The thermophilic fungus Humicola grisea var. thermoidea produced beta-glucosidase activity when grown in a solid-state culture on wheat bran as carbon source. A beta-glucosidase was purified to apparent homogeneity by ultrafiltration, gel filtration chromatography on Sephacryl S-100, and ion-exchange chromatography on S-Sepharose, as judged by sodium dodecyl sulfate--polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) on a 12.5% (w/v) slab gel. The enzyme had a molecular mass of 82 and 156 kDa, as estimated by SDS-PAGE and gel filtration on a high performance liquid chromatographic column, respectively, suggesting that the native enzyme may consist of two identical subunits. The purified enzyme was thermostable at 60 degrees C for 1 h with a half-life of 15 min at 65 degrees C, and displayed optimum activity at 60 degrees C and a pH range. of 4.0-4.5. The Km and Vmax values for p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside were determined to be 0.316 mM and 0.459 IU.mL-1, respectively. D-Glucose, D-gluconic acid lactone, Hg2+, Cu2+, and Mn2+ inhibited beta-glucosidase activity. The enzyme activity was competitively inhibited by D-glucose (ki = 0.6 mM). The purified enzyme was very active against cellobiose and p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside. 
23226882	20121211	Soil_Biol._Biochem.	D016428 	Near infrared spectroscopy for determination of various physical, chemical and biochemical properties in Mediterranean soils.	The potential of near infrared (NIR) reflectance spectroscopy to predict various physical, chemical and biochemical properties in Mediterranean soils from SE Spain was evaluated. Soil samples (n=393) were obtained by sampling thirteen locations during three years (2003-2005 period). These samples had a wide range of soil characteristics due to variations in land use, vegetation cover and specific climatic conditions. Biochemical properties also included microbial biomarkers based on phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA). Partial least squares (PLS) regression with cross validation was used to establish relationships between the NIR spectra and the reference data from physical, chemical and biochemical analyses. Based on the values of coefficient of determination (r(2)) and the ratio of standard deviation of validation set to root mean square error of cross validation (RPD), predicted results were evaluated as excellent (r(2)>0.90 and RPD>3) for soil organic carbon, Kjeldahl nitrogen, soil moisture, cation exchange capacity, microbial biomass carbon, basal soil respiration, acid phosphatase activity, β-glucosidase activity and PLFA biomarkers for total bacteria, Gram positive bacteria, actinomycetes, vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and total PLFA biomass. Good predictions (0.81<r(2)<0.90 and 2.5<RPD<3) were obtained for exchangeable calcium and magnesium, water soluble carbon, water holding capacity and urease activity. Resultant models for protozoa and fungi were not accurate enough to satisfactorily estimate these variables, only permitting approximate predictions (0.66<r(2)<0.80 and 2.0<RPD<2.5). Electrical conductivity, pH, exchangeable phosphorus and sodium, metabolic quotient and Gram negative bacteria were poorly predicted (r(2)<0.66 and RPD<2). Thus, the results obtained in this study reflect that NIR reflectance spectroscopy could be used as a rapid, inexpensive and non-destructive technique to predict some physical, chemical and biochemical soil properties for Mediterranean soils, including variables related to the composition of the soil microbial community composition. 
17536334	20070601	Indian_J._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 	Purification and properties of alpha-galactosidase from white-rot fungus Pleurotus florida.	alpha-Galactosidase was strongly induced in the white-rot fungus Pleurotus florida by arabinose than its natural substrates and was purified to homogeneity by acetone precipitation, ultrafiltration and DEAE-Sepharose chromatography. The enzyme was a monomeric protein with a molecular mass of approximately equal to 99 kDa, as revealed by native-PAGE and SDS-PAGE. alpha-Galactosidase was optimally active at 55 degrees C for the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl-alpha-galactopyranoside (PNPalphaG) and lost its 20% and 50% of original activity in 30 min at 60 degres C and 70 degrees C, respectively. The pH optimum of the enzyme was between 4.6 and 5.0. It was stable in a wide pH range (pH 4.0 to 9.0) at 55 degrees C for 2 h. The Ag+ and Hg2+ strongly inhibited the enzyme activity. Galactose, glucose, maltose and lactose also inhibited the enzyme activity, whereas N-bromosuccinimide treatment resulted in near total loss of acitivity. The Km and Vmax values of the enzyme for PNPalphaG were found to be 1.1 mM, and 77 micromol min(-1) mg(-1), respectively. alpha-Galactosidase immobilized in agar was more effective for the degradation of raffinose than in the sodium alginate. TLC results indicated its potential for the removal of raffinose and stachyose in soymilk. 
18211014	20080124	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Cinnamic acid inhibits growth but stimulates production of pathogenesis factors by in vitro cultures of Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. niveum.	Long-term monoculture of watermelon leads to frequent occurrence of watermelon fusarium wilt caused by Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. niveum (FON). Some allelochemicals contained in watermelon root exudates and decaying residues are possibly responsible for promoting the wilt disease. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the allelopathic effect of artificially applied cinnamic acid on FON. Results demonstrated that hyphal growth of FON was strongly inhibited by cinnamic acid. At the highest concentration of cinnamic acid, the biomass in liquid culture was decreased by 63.3%, while colony diameter, conidial germination on plates, and conidial production in liquid culture were completely inhibited. However, mycotoxin production and activity of phytopathogenic enzymes were greatly stimulated. Mycotoxin yield, pectinase activity, proteinase activity, cellulase activity, and amylase activity were increased by 490, 590, 760, 2006, and 27.0%, respectively. It was concluded that cinnamic acid dramatically stimulated mycotoxin production and activities of hydrolytic enzymes by FON but inhibited growth and germination of FON. The findings presented here indicate that cinnamic acid is involved in promoting watermelon fusarium wilt. 
22049159	20111104	Food_Sci_Technol_Int	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Isolation of pectin-enriched products from red beet (Beta vulgaris L. var. conditiva) wastes: composition and functional properties.	The present work was dedicated to the development of an extraction process for red beet (Beta vulgaris L. var. conditiva) by-products that preserves the high molecular weight of the macromolecules with the primary aim of waste upgrading. Our study concerns the extraction of pectin-enriched products with potential thickening properties for their usage in food formulation, as well as with some healthy physiological effect, by using citrate buffer (pH = 5.2) either alone or with enzymes (hemicellulase or cellulase) active on cell wall polysaccharide networks. Considering that red beet tissue contains ferulic acid, which cross-links pectin macromolecules through arabinose residues to anchor them into the cell wall, an alkaline pretreatment was also evaluated in order to perform polysaccharide hydrolysis in the cell wall network to accomplish higher renderings. Chemical composition and yield, as well as the in vitro glucose retention exerted by the isolated fiber products were finally analyzed. 
22829651	20120726	J._Lipid_Res.	D016428 D013485 	A new, robust, and nonradioactive approach for exploring N-myristoylation.	Myristoyl-CoA (CoA):protein N-myristoyltransferase (NMT) catalyzes protein modification through covalent attachment of a C14 fatty acid (myristic acid) to the N-terminal glycine of proteins, thus promoting protein-protein and protein-membrane interactions. NMT is essential for the viability of numerous human pathogens and is also up-regulated in several tumors. Here we describe a new, nonradioactive, ELISA-based method for measuring NMT activity. After the NMT-catalyzed reaction between a FLAG-tagged peptide and azido-dodecanoyl-CoA (analog of myristoyl-CoA), the resulting azido-dodecanoyl-peptide-FLAG was coupled to phosphine-biotin by Staudinger ligation, captured by plate-bound anti-FLAG antibodies and detected by streptavidin-peroxidase. The assay was validated with negative controls (including inhibitors), corroborated by HPLC analysis, and demonstrated to function with fresh or frozen tissues. Recombinant murine NMT1 and NMT2 were characterized using this new method. This versatile assay is applicable for exploring recombinant NMTs with regard to their activity, substrate specificity, and possible inhibitors as well as for measuring NMT-activity in tissues. 
18624637	20080716	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Tomatinase from Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici is required for full virulence on tomato plants.	Saponin detoxification enzymes from pathogenic fungi are involved in the infection process of their host plants. Fusarium oxysporum f. sp lycopersici, a tomato pathogen, produces the tomatinase enzyme Tom1, which degrades alpha-tomatine to less toxic derivates. To study the role of the tom1 gene in the virulence of F. oxysporum, we performed targeted disruption and overexpression of the gene. The infection process of tomato plants inoculated with transformants constitutively producing Tom1 resulted in an increase of symptom development. By contrast, tomato plants infected with the knockout mutants showed a delay in the disease process, indicating that Tom1, although not essential for pathogenicity, is required for the full virulence of F. oxysporum. Total tomatinase activity in the disrupted strains was reduced only 25%, leading to beta(2)-tomatine as the main hydrolysis product of the saponin in vitro. In silico analysis of the F. oxysporum genome revealed the existence of four additional putative tomatinase genes with identities to tomatinases from family 3 of glycosyl hydrolases. These might be responsible for the remaining tomatinase activity in the Deltatom1 mutants. Our results indicate that detoxification of alpha-tomatine in F. oxysporum is carried out by several tomatinase activities, suggesting the importance of these enzymes during the infection process. 
12192081	20020823	Protein_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Surface adhesion of fusion proteins containing the hydrophobins HFBI and HFBII from Trichoderma reesei.	Hydrophobins are surface-active proteins produced by filamentous fungi, where they seem to be ubiquitous. They have a variety of roles in fungal physiology related to surface phenomena, such as adhesion, formation of surface layers, and lowering of surface tension. Hydrophobins can be divided into two classes based on the hydropathy profile of their primary sequence. We have studied the adhesion behavior of two Trichoderma reesei class II hydrophobins, HFBI and HFBII, as isolated proteins and as fusion proteins. Both hydrophobins were produced as C-terminal fusions to the core of the hydrolytic enzyme endoglucanase I from the same organism. It was shown that as a fusion partner, HFBI causes the fusion protein to efficiently immobilize to hydrophobic surfaces, such as silanized glass and Teflon. The properties of the surface-bound protein were analyzed by the enzymatic activity of the endoglucanase domain, by surface plasmon resonance (Biacore), and by a quartz crystal microbalance. We found that the HFBI fusion forms a tightly bound, rigid surface layer on a hydrophobic support. The HFBI domain also causes the fusion protein to polymerize in solution, possibly to a decamer. Although isolated HFBII binds efficiently to surfaces, it does not cause immobilization as a fusion partner, nor does it cause polymerization of the fusion protein in solution. The findings give new information on how hydrophobins function and how they can be used to immobilize fusion proteins. 
11499934	20010814	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	The influence of supplemental components in nutrient medium on chitosan formation by the fungus Absidia orchidis.	Chitosan, a derivative of chitin, is a natural component of some fungus cell walls. It is formed by the complex action of chitin synthase and chitin deacetylase. The in vitro activity of these two enzymes is known to be influenced by several factors. We investigated the influence of ferrous ions, manganese ions, cobalt ions, trypsin, and chitin, as individual supplements to the nutrient medium, on the in vivo activity of chitin synthase and chitin deacetylase to form chitosan in the fungus Absidia orchidis. Manganese and ferrous ions gave the most significant results. These ions increase chitosan yields through an increase in biomass production rather than an increase of chitosan content in cell walls. Manganese and ferrous ions lowered the activity of chitin deacetylase; however, their influence on the activity of chitin synthase was more complex. The effects of trypsin and chitin on biomass and cell wall chitosan content were negligible, while cobalt ions completely inhibited the growth of fungi. 
23728162	20130604	Adv._Biochem._Eng._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulases from insects.	Bioethanol is currently produced by the fermentation of sugary and starchy crops, but waste plant biomass is a more abundant source because sugars can be derived directly from cellulose. One of the limiting steps in the biomass-to-ethanol process is the degradation of cellulose to fermentable sugars (saccharification). This currently relies on the use of bacterial and/or fungal cellulases, which tend to have low activity under biorefinery conditions and are easily inhibited. Some insect species feed on plant biomass and can efficiently degrade cellulose to produce glucose as an energy source. Although insects were initially thought to require symbiotic relationships with bacteria and fungi to break down cellulose, several species in the orders Dictyoptera, Orthoptera, and Coleoptera have now been shown to produce their own cellulases in the midgut or salivary glands, and putative cellulase genes have been identified in other orders. Insect cellulases often work in concert with cellulases provided by symbiotic microbiota in the gut to achieve efficient cellulolysis. We discuss the current status of insect cellulases and potential strategies that could be used to find novel enzymes and improve their efficiency. 
16408317	20060113	Pest_Manag._Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Enhancement of natural disease resistance in potatoes by chemicals.	The mechanism involved in systemic acquired resistance (SAR) can be non-specifically induced in susceptible plants. In response to pathogens, plants' natural defence mechanisms include the production of lignin and phytoalexins and the induction of plant enzymes. The aim of this research was to study the induction of SAR mediated by the chemical activator DL-3-aminobutyric acid (BABA) and the fungicide fosetyl-aluminium in potato cultivars with different levels of resistance against Phytophthora infestans (Mont) de Bary. To study the chemical induction of the resistance, the foliage of several potato cultivars was sprayed with BABA, fosetyl-aluminium or water (as a control treatment). After 3 days the foliage was inoculated with P. infestans. Seven days after inoculation, development of disease symptoms in the foliage was assessed. In postharvest tuber samples, evidence for enhancement of the defence response was evaluated by measuring the protein content of several hydrolytic enzymes as well as the phenol and phytoalexin content. The highest level of protection against late blight was observed when the chemicals were applied at early stages of crop development. An increase in resistance to late blight was also detected in tubers after harvest. There was also an increase in the protein level of beta-1,3-glucanase and aspartic protease as well as in the phenol and phytoalexin content of potato tuber discs obtained from postharvest tubers of treated plants. Thus the protective effect seemed to persist throughout the whole crop cycle. This treatment may offer the possibility of controlling both foliage and tuber blight and could have a major impact in reducing over-winter survival of P. infestans in tubers. 
7764611	19940101	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D003160 D016428 	Purification and specificity of recombinant Hormoconis resinae glucoamylase P and endogenous glucoamylase from Trichoderma reesei.	Hormoconis resinae glucoamylase P of high debranching activity was purified from a recombinant Trichoderma reesei strain. Four different purified fractions were obtained. Three had the same amino terminal sequence as the wild-type enzyme and about the same specific activity, and yielded the same single band on SDS-PAGE after deglycosylation. Presumably they resulted from different glycosylation patterns of the recombinant glucoamylase P. One fraction had a much lower specific activity and yielded tryptic peptides that identified it as the host cellobiohydrolase I contaminated with glucoamylase P. The different glycosylation patterns of recombinant glucoamylase P had only minor effects on its thermal inactivation. During purification of the recombinant glucoamylase, a protein with lower debranching activity was found and purified by chromatofocusing to homogeneity as assessed by SDS-PAGE. It had a pI of about 4.0 and a ratio of pullulan- to starch-degrading activity of 15%. Its amino terminal sequence showed 60% identity to the amino terminal sequence of glucoamylases P and S from Hormoconis resinae. Presumably this enzyme is the endogenous glucoamylase of Trichoderma reesei. 
16269743	20051105	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Survival of genetically modified and self-cloned strains of commercial baker's yeast in simulated natural environments: environmental risk assessment.	Although genetic engineering techniques for baker's yeast might improve the yeast's fermentation characteristics, the lack of scientific data on the survival of such strains in natural environments as well as the effects on human health prevent their commercial use. Disruption of acid trehalase gene (ATH1) improves freeze tolerance, which is a crucial characteristic in frozen-dough baking. In this study, ATH1 disruptants constructed by genetic modification (GM) and self-cloning (SC) techniques were used as models to study such effects because these strains have higher freeze tolerance and are expected to be used commercially. Behavior of the strains in simulated natural environments, namely, in soil and water, was studied by measuring the change in the number of viable cells and in the concentration of DNA that contains ATH1 loci. Measurements were made using a real-time PCR method during 40 days of cultivation. Results showed that the number of viable cells of GM and SC strains decreased in a time-dependent manner and that the decrease rate was nearly equal to or higher than that for wild-type (WT) yeast. For all three strains (SC, GM, and WT) in the two simulated natural environments (water and soil), the DNA remained longer than did viable cells but the decrease patterns of either the DNA or the viable cells of SC and GM strains had tendencies similar to those of the WT strain. In conclusion, disruption of ATH1 by genetic engineering apparently does not promote the survival of viable cells and DNA in natural environments. 
18600051	20080705	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and properties of a novel beta-glucosidase, hydrolyzing ginsenoside Rb1 to CK, from Paecilomyces Bainier.	A novel ginsenoside-hydrolyzing beta-glucosidase was purified from Paecilomyces Bainier sp. 229 by a combination of QSepharose FF, phenyl-Sepharose CL-4B, and CHT ceramic hydroxyapatite column chromatographies. The purified enzyme was a monomeric protein with a molecular mass estimated to be 115 kDa. The optimal enzyme activity was observed at pH 3.5 and 60oC. It was highly stable within pH 3-9 and at temperatures lower than 55oC. The enzyme was specific to beta-glucoside. The order of enzyme activities against different types of beta-glucosidic linkages was beta-(1- 6)>beta-(1-2)>beta-(1-4). The enzyme converted ginsenoside Rb1 to CK specifically and efficiently. An 84.3% amount of ginsenoside Rb1, with an initial concentration of 2 mM, was converted into CK in 24 h by the enzyme at 45 degrees and pH 3.5. The hydrolysis pathway of ginsenoside Rb1 by the enzyme was Rb1-->Rd-->F2-->CK. Five tryptic peptide fragments of the enzyme were identified by a newly developed de novo sequencing method of post-source decay (PSD) matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry. By comparing the five identified peptide sequences with the NCBI database, this purified beta-glucosidase proves to be a new protein that has not been reported before. 
9763440	19981008	Mol._Biol._Cell	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The role of glucosidase I (Cwh41p) in the biosynthesis of cell wall beta-1,6-glucan is indirect.	CWH41, a gene involved in the assembly of cell wall beta-1,6-glucan, has recently been shown to be the structural gene for Saccharomyces cerevisiae glucosidase I that is responsible for initiating the trimming of terminal alpha-1,2-glucose residue in the N-glycan processing pathway. To distinguish between a direct or indirect role of Cwh41p in the biosynthesis of beta-1,6-glucan, we constructed a double mutant, alg5Delta (lacking dolichol-P-glucose synthase) cwh41Delta, and found that it has the same phenotype as the alg5Delta single mutant. It contains wild-type levels of cell wall beta-1,6-glucan, shows moderate underglycosylation of N-linked glycoproteins, and grows at concentrations of Calcofluor White (which interferes with cell wall assembly) that are lethal to cwh41Delta single mutant. The strong genetic interactions of CWH41 with KRE6 and KRE1, two other genes involved in the beta-1,6-glucan biosynthetic pathway, disappear in the absence of dolichol-P-glucose synthase (alg5Delta). The triple mutant alg5Deltacwh41Deltakre6Delta is viable, whereas the double mutant cwh41Deltakre6Delta in the same genetic background is not. The severe slow growth phenotype and 75% reduction in cell wall beta-1,6-glucan, characteristic of the cwh41Deltakre1Delta double mutant, are not observed in the triple mutant alg5Deltacwh41Deltakre1Delta. Kre6p, a putative Golgi glucan synthase, is unstable in cwh41Delta strains, and its overexpression renders these cells Calcofluor White resistant. These results demonstrate that the role of glucosidase I (Cwh41p) in the biosynthesis of cell wall beta-1,6-glucan is indirect and that dolichol-P-glucose is not an intermediate in this pathway. 
9925560	19990130	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Composition and enzymatic activity of the extracellular matrix secreted by germlings of botrytis cinerea.	Germlings of Botrytis cinerea, an important fungal pathogen of plants, produce an extracellular matrix (ECM), or ensheathing film, that serves, in part, in their attachment (R. P. Doss, et al., Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 61:260-265, 1995). The composition of this film has been ascertained by using samples obtained by growing germlings on a glass surface, removing the fungal mycelium by vigorous washing, and collecting the tightly attached film by scraping the substratum with a razor blade. Slightly over half of the dry weight of the ECM was found to be carbohydrates (about 20%), proteins (about 28%), and lipids (about 6%). Hydrolysis of the carbohydrate portion of the ECM revealed that glucose was the most prominent monosaccharide present, comprising about 60% of the total monosaccharides. Also present were mannose (about 35%) and myo-inositol (about 5%). The proteinaceous fraction of the ECM was made up of a number of polypeptides separable by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The lipid fraction of the ECM, analyzed by thin-layer chromatography, was made up of several simple lipid components, including free fatty acid, mono- and triacylglycerol, wax ester, fatty alcohol, and several unidentified components. No complex lipids were detected. Isolated ECM exhibited polygalacturonase and laccase activity and was able to catalyze the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl butyrate, a model substrate for assessing cutinase activity. Cellulase, pectin lyase, and pectin methyl esterase activities were noted with both heated and unheated ECM preparations. Proteinase activity was not detected. 
18421583	20080419	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013486 	Effects of pH and temperature on recombinant manganese peroxidase production and stability.	The enzyme manganese peroxidase (MnP) is produced by numerous white-rot fungi to overcome biomass recalcitrance caused by lignin. MnP acts directly on lignin and increases access of the woody structure to synergistic wood-degrading enzymes such as cellulases and xylanases. Recombinant MnP (rMnP) can be produced in the yeast Pichia pastoris alphaMnP1-1 in fed-batch fermentations. The effects of pH and temperature on recombinant manganese peroxidase (rMnP) production by P. pastoris alphaMnP1-1 were investigated in shake flask and fed-batch fermentations. The optimum pH and temperature for a standardized fed-batch fermentation process for rMnP production in P. pastoris alphaMnP1-1 were determined to be pH 6 and 30 degrees C, respectively. P. pastoris alphaMnP1-1 constitutively expresses the manganese peroxidase (mnp1) complementary DNA from Phanerochaete chrysosporium, and the rMnP has similar kinetic characteristics and pH activity and stability ranges as the wild-type MnP (wtMnP). Cultivation of P. chrysosporium mycelia in stationary flasks for production of heme peroxidases is commonly conducted at low pH (pH 4.2). However, shake flask and fed-batch fermentation experiments with P. pastoris alphaMnP1-1 demonstrated that rMnP production is highest at pH 6, with rMnP concentrations in the medium declining rapidly at pH less than 5.5, although cell growth rates were similar from pH 4-7. Investigations of the cause of low rMnP production at low pH were consistent with the hypothesis that intracellular proteases are released from dead and lysed yeast cells during the fermentation that are active against rMnP at pH less than 5.5. 
7479634	19950701	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[An affinity chromatography sorbent containing concanavalin A groups immobilized by complex formation with cobalt].	A Spheron-base affinity sorbent containing Concanavalin A (Con A) groupings has been synthesized. Con A was immobilized via the formation of a ternary complex with a stationary ligand (tetrafunctional) triethylene tetramine) and cobalt(III) ions. The inertness of cobalt(III) provided strong binding of Con A to the matrix. The sorbent was tested for the ability to absorb proteins (albumin, lysozyme, heparin, and ribonuclease) and used the isolation of glucosaminidase from the proteolytic complex of the fungus Geotrichum candidum. The purified enzyme was characterized biochemically. 
12721414	20030502	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of dose of xylanase on bleachability of sugarcane bagasse ethanol/water pulps.	Pulps obtained from the ethanol/water cooking of sugarcane bagasse were bleached with the xylanase enzyme obtained from the fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus IOC-4145 and with the commercial enzyme Cartazyme HS from Sandoz. By changing the enzyme dose from 4.3 to 36 IU/g of pulp, kappa number and viscosity were maintained when the xylanase from T. lanuginosus was used. On the other hand, by using Cartazyme HS, kappa number decreased by 17%, reaching 35.5. This pulp was further extracted with NaOH without a decrease in viscosity (10 cP), and pulp with a kappa number of 13 was obtained. Xylanases had no significant effect on the ethanol/water pulps. 
22579450	20120515	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization and gene expression profiles of thermotolerant Saccharomyces cerevisiae isolates from Thai fruits.	For industrial applications, fermentation of ethanol at high temperature offers advantages such as reduction in cooling costs, reduced risk of microbial contamination and higher efficiency of fermentation processes including saccharification and continuous ethanol stripping. Three thermotolerant Saccharomyces cerevisiae isolates (C3723, C3751 and C3867) from Thai fruits were capable of growing and producing 38 g/L ethanol up to 41°C. Based on genetic analyses, these isolates were prototrophic and homothallic, with dominant homothallic and thermotolerant phenotypes. After short-term (30 min) and long-term (12 h) exposure at 37°C, expression levels increased for the heat stress-response genes HSP26, SSA4, HSP82, and HSP104 encoding the heat shock proteins small HSP, HSP70, HSP90 and the HSP100 family, respectively. In isolates C3723 and C3867, expression was significantly higher than that in reference isolates W303 and TISTR5606 for TPS1 encoding trehalose-6-phosphate synthase, NTH1 encoding neutral trehalase and GSY1 encoding glycogen synthase. The results suggested that continuous high expression of heat stress-response genes was important for the long-term, heat stress tolerance of these thermotolerant isolates. 
16349820	19681101	Appl_Microbiol	D016428 	Starch Hydrolysis by Conidia of Aspergillus wentii.	Soluble starch was hydrolyzed to glucose by conidia of Aspergillus wentii NRRL 2001. Peak yields of glucose were achieved in 3 days. A glucoamylase-like enzyme was assumed to be responsible since maltose was not detected during the conversion. Spore age, storage conditions, and temperature affected the level of glucose accumulated. Iodoacetate inhibited catabolism of the glucose formed and this inhibition increased product yield. Spores of other fungi also hydrolyzed starch but none accumulated glucose naturally as did A. wentii spores. 
19058186	20081206	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Functional characterization of a bacterial expansin from Bacillus subtilis for enhanced enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose.	Expansin is a plant protein family that induces plant cell wall-loosening and cellulose disruption without exerting cellulose-hydrolytic activity. Expansin-like proteins have also been found in other eukaryotes such as nematodes and fungi. While searching for an expansin produced by bacteria, we found that the BsEXLX1 protein from Bacillus subtilis had a structure that was similar to that of a beta-expansin produced by maize. Therefore, we cloned the BsEXLX1 gene and expressed it in Escherichia coli to evaluate its function. When incubated with filter paper as a cellulose substrate, the recombinant protein exhibited both cellulose-binding and cellulose-weakening activities, which are known functions of plant expansins. In addition, evaluation of the enzymatic hydrolysis of filter paper revealed that the recombinant protein also displayed a significant synergism when mixed with cellulase. By comparing the activity of a mixture of cellulase and the bacterial expansin to the additive activity of the individual proteins, the synergistic activity was found to be as high as 240% when filter paper was incubated with cellulase and BsEXLX1, which was 5.7-fold greater than the activity of cellulase alone. However, this synergistic effect was observed when only a low dosage of cellulase was used. This is the first study to characterize the function of an expansin produced by a non-eukaryotic source. 
17499007	20070515	Trends_Plant_Sci.	D016428 D016454 	New insights into pectin methylesterase structure and function.	In bacteria, fungi and plants, pectin methylesterases are ubiquitous enzymes that modify the degree of methylesterification of pectins, which are major components of plant cell walls. Such changes in pectin structure are associated with changes in cellular adhesion, plasticity, pH and ionic contents of the cell wall and influence plant development and stress responses. In plants, pectin methylesterases belong to large multigene families, are regulated in a highly specific manner, and are involved in vegetative and reproductive processes, including wood and pollen formation, in addition to plant-pathogen interactions. Although, overall, protein structures are highly conserved between isoforms, recent data indicate that structural variations might be associated with the targeting and functions of specific pectin methylesterases. 
6786718	19810301	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Cellulolytic enzyme system of Acetivibrio cellulolyticus.	Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the cellulolytic system from culture supernates of Acetivibrio cellulolyticus showed the presence of four major enzymes: a beta-glucosidase, an exoglucanase, and two endoglucanases. The relative proportions of these enzymes in the culture supernate were affected by the nature of the cellulosic substrate and by the length of the incubation period. The molecular weights of the cellulolytic enzymes were beta-glucosidase, 81 000; exoglucanase, 38 000; endoglucanase C2, 33 000; and endoglucanase C3, 10 400, as estimated by their electrophoretic mobilities relative to proteins of known molecular weight. Treatment of the high molecular weight endoglucanase with SDS--mercaptoethanol led to reversible dissociation of the enzyme into polypeptide subunits similar to the low molecular weight endoglucanase. Endoglucanase activity could be assayed for directly using a novel method of incorporating carboxymethyl cellulose in the polyacrylamide gels. The molecular weights and functions of these enzymes are compared with those detected in culture filtrates of various fungi. 
11559354	20010918	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Neurotensin induces mating in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells that express human neurotensin receptor type 1 in place of the endogenous pheromone receptor.	Heterologous expression of the human neurotensin receptor type I (hNT1-R) has been achieved in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Immunoanalysis of membranes prepared from cells expressing a c-myc-tagged version of hNT1-R revealed multiple c-myc cross-reacting polypeptides of high molecular mass, suggesting that hNT1-R was glycosylated in yeast. High-affinity binding sites for 125I-labeled-[monoiodo-Tyr3]neurotensin ([125I-Tyr3]NT) were detected on hNT1-R-expressing cells with Kd and Bmax values of 3.2 nM and of 500 receptors per cell, respectively. Competition binding studies of neurotensin with SR142948 and SR48692, two nonpeptidic antagonists of hNT1-R, indicated that the yeast-produced recombinant receptor displayed the same pharmacological properties as hNT1-R expressed in mammalian cells. Interestingly, neurotensin activated the pheromone pathway in hNT1-R-expressing cells in a dose-dependent fashion, as revealed by a beta-galactosidase activity assay with a pheromone-responsive Fus1:lacZ construct. Mutational inactivation of the SST2 and STE2 genes increased the level of beta-galactosidase activity in response to neurotensin by twofold. Recombinant hNT1-R-producing cells, which lacked the endogenous G-protein-coupled receptor for the alpha pheromone, mated with wild-type MATalpha haploid cells in response to neurotensin, leading to bona fide diploid zygote formation. This is the first report of a mammalian receptor that can replace the endogenous pheromone receptor when produced in yeast, by signaling a fully effective, agonist-induced, mating process. 
16110456	20050820	Genet._Mol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Hydrolytic enzymes in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis--ecological aspects.	Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a thermally dimorphic fungus that causes paracoccidioidomycosis. The yeast form of this pathogen is found in the animal host whereas the mycelial form is recovered from living and non-living organic material. The sole carbon source available in these habitats is represented by polysaccharides from the plant cell wall. Hydrolytic enzymes are necessary to convert these polymers into simple sugars for fungal metabolism. We report on the presence of ortholog genes of hydrolytic enzymes identified in the P. brasiliensis transcriptome and on hydrolytic activities in supernatants of induced P. brasiliensis cultures of mycelium and yeast cells. Enzymatic assays have shown cellulase and xylanase activities, both being higher in mycelium than in the yeast form. Amylase and chitinase activities were detected only in mycelium. Data so far reinforce the idea that mycelial P. brasiliensis is a saprobe. 
21830826	20110812	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	A high-throughput assay for quantification of starch hydrolase inhibition based on turbidity measurement.	A high-throughput method for rapid determination of starch hydrolase inhibition was developed using a 96-well microplate UV-vis reader to monitor the turbidity decrease over time. The area under the curve of turbidity measured over time was used to quantify the inhibitory effect of polyphenolic compounds on porcine pancreatic amylase, rat intestine α-glucosidase, and fungal amyloglucosidase. Acarbose equivalence (AE) was introduced for the first time and defined as IC50 of acarbose divided by the IC50 of the sample measured under the same 96-well plate. This way, the run-to-run variations are canceled out. Among the plant extracts tested, grape seed extracts (1,440 μmolAE/g) and cinnamon bark extracts (1600 μmolAE/g) are the most active in inhibiting rat intestine α-glucosidase. For porcine α-amylase inhibition, grape seed extracts (5710 μmol AE/g) are close to four times more active (equal weight basis) than acarbose (1550 μmolAE/g). 
21253720	20110122	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Maximal release of highly bifidogenic soluble dietary fibers from industrial potato pulp by minimal enzymatic treatment.	Potato pulp is a poorly utilized, high-volume co-processing product resulting from industrial potato starch manufacturing. Potato pulp mainly consists of the tuber plant cell wall material and is particularly rich in pectin, notably galactan branched rhamnogalacturonan I type pectin which has previously been shown to exhibit promising properties as dietary fiber. The objective of this study was to solubilize dietary fibers from potato pulp by a one-step minimal treatment procedure and evaluate the prebiotic potential of the fibers. Statistically designed experiments were conducted to investigate the influence of enzyme type, dosage, substrate level, incubation time, and temperature on the enzyme catalyzed solubilization to define the optimal minimal enzyme treatment for maximal fiber solubilization. The result was a method that within 1 min released 75% [weight/weight (w/w)] dry matter from 1% (w/w) potato pulp treated with 1.0% (w/w) [enzyme/substrate (E/S)] pectin lyase from Aspergillus nidulans and 1.0% (w/w) E/S polygalacturonase from Aspergillus aculeatus at pH 6.0 and 60 °C. Molecular size fractionation of the solubilized fibers revealed two major fractions: one fraction rich in galacturonic acid of 10-100 kDa indicating mainly homogalacturonan, and a fraction >100 kDa rich in galactose, presumably mainly made up of β-1,4-galactan chains of rhamnogalacturonan I. When fermented in vitro by microbial communities derived from fecal samples from three healthy human volunteers, both of the solubilized fiber fractions were more bifidogenic than fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS). Notably the fibers having molecular masses of >100 kDa selectively increased the densities of Bifidobacterium spp. and Lactobacillus spp. 2-3 times more than FOS. 
16662879	19830301	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Release of protein from normal and mutant tomato cell walls.	The nitrogen content of cell wall preparations from normal tomato (cv Ailsa Craig) fruit remained constant during ripening, whereas salt-soluble protein increased throughout this process. Tomato polygalacturonase released about twice as much protein from the preparations as salts did, with a maximum at the orange stage of development. Polygalacturonase-solubilized protein from the tomato mutant ;ripening inhibitor' (rin) was less, and that from the mutant ;Never ripe' (Nr) cell walls was more than that from normal wall preparations. Release of protein by fungal cellulase was limited, but was increased by the addition of polygalacturonase from the same source. Salt-solubilized protein contained a range of enzymic activities but these were distributed between fewer multimolecular forms than is the case for whole cell preparations. The results suggest that metabolically active protein, removable by strong salt solutions, cellulase, or polygalacturonase, remains attached to the cell walls of tomato fruit until late in ripening. The unusual amounts of protein attached to the cell walls of mutant fruit appear to be a reflection of the absence of some or all of the isoenzymes of polygalacturonase that are associated with normal ripening. 
2854095	19881215	Gene	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Cloning and characterization of the CYC8 gene mediating glucose repression in yeast.	Mutations in the CYC8 ( = SSN6) gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae alleviate glucose repression of many glucose-repressible genes. The gene was isolated by screening for complementation of a cyc8 effect on colony morphology. Subclones containing a 5.3-kb SalI-XbaI fragment provided complete complementation. The gene was further localized to 3.5 kb by mapping of the CYC8 mRNA and insertional mutagenesis. Insertion and deletion mutations are viable and produce the same array of phenotypes as point mutations. CYC8 disruptions also had effects on the mating ability and morphology of MAT alpha cells similar to that of tup1 mutations. The nucleotide sequence of a 4866-bp fragment, including CYC8, was determined. One long open reading frame of 966 amino acid predicts a protein of molecular weight 10,7215. The predicted protein is extremely glutamine-rich, with blocks of 16 and 31 glutamines in tandem at the N and C regions, respectively. The CYC8 gene product lacks consensus sequences for DNA-binding domains, suggesting that its function may be different from classical repressor proteins. 
18294137	20080226	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of extracellular alpha-galactosidases from Penicillium canescens.	Two alpha-galactosidases were purified to homogeneity from the enzymatic complex of the mycelial fungus Penicillium canescens using chromatography on different sorbents. Substrate specificity, pH- and temperature optima of activity, stability under different pH and temperature conditions, and the influence of effectors on the catalytic properties of both enzymes were investigated. Genes aglA and aglC encoding alpha-galactosidases from P. canescens were isolated, and amino acid sequences of the proteins were predicted. In vitro feed testing (with soybean meal and soybean byproducts enriched with galactooligosaccharides as substrates) demonstrated that both alpha-galactosidases from P. canescens could be successfully used as feed additives. alpha-Galactosidase A belonging to the 27th glycosyl hydrolase family hydrolyzed galactopolysaccharides (galactomannans) and alpha-galactosidase C belonging to the 36th glycosyl hydrolase family hydrolyzed galactooligosaccharides (stachyose, raffinose, etc.) of soybean with good efficiency, thus improving the digestibility of fodder. 
8475042	19930201	Protein_Eng.	D016428 D013485 	Engineering cysteine mutants to obtain crystallographic phases with a cutinase from Fusarium solani pisi.	Cutinases are extracellular enzymes involved in the disruption of cutine, an insoluble polyester which covers the surface of plants. They belong to a class of serine esterases that are able to hydrolyse fatty acid esters and emulsified triglycerides as efficiently as lipases, but without displaying interfacial activation. Classical crystallographic methods for obtaining heavy-atom derivatives failed, so the cutinase structure has been solved exclusively by the multiple isomorphous replacement method using four Hg derivatives obtained from mutants S4C, S92C, S120C and S129C. Two of these derivatives behaved as expected: (i) the cys mutant of the catalytic Ser S120C, located at the surface of the active site pocket, leads to a good derivative; and (ii) the Hg atom of the derivative obtained with the S92C mutant is completely accessible to the solvent and occupies two alternative positions--consequently a poor derivative results. In contrast, two mutants show an unexpected behaviour: (i) the Hg atom in the S129C mutant was completely buried 10 A below the protein surface and yielded the best derivative; and (ii) a poor quality derivative was obtained with the S4C mutant. Cys 4 belongs to the disordered propeptide 1-16. The Cys 4 bound Hg atom is located in front of the Asp58 side chain, but neither Cys4 nor parts of the propeptide are clearly visible in the electron density maps of the derivative structure. 
16893583	20060809	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Directed evolution of the thermostable xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus.	The thermostability of the endo-beta-1,4-xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus (xynA) was improved by directed evolution using error-prone PCR. Transformants expressing the variant xylanases were first selected on 0.4% Remazol Brilliant Blue-xylan and then exposed to 80 degrees C. Whereas the wild type XynA lost 90% activity after 10 min at 80 degrees C, five mutants displayed both higher stabilities and activities than XynA. Four mutants were subjected to further mutagenesis to improve the stability and activity of the xylanase. Subsequent screening revealed three mutants with enhanced thermostability. Mutant 2B7-10 retained 71% of its activity after treatment at 80 degrees C for 60 min and had a half-life of 215 min at 70 degrees C, which is higher than that attained by XynA. Sequence analysis of second generation mutants revealed that mutations were not concentrated in any particular region of the protein and exhibited much variation. The best mutant obtained from this study was variant 2B7-10, which had a single substitution (Y58F) in beta-sheet A of the protein, which is the hydrophilic, solvent-accessible outer surface of the enzyme. Most of the mutants obtained in this study displayed a compromise between stability and activity, the only exception being mutant 2B7-10. This variant showed increased activity and thermostability. 
15766863	20050316	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 	A chitinase with antifungal activity from the mung bean.	A chitinase with antifungal activity was isolated from mung bean (Phaseolus mungo) seeds. The procedure entailed aqueous extraction, (NH4)2SO4 precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography on CM-Sepharose, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on Poros HS-20, and gel filtration on Sephadex G-75. The protein exhibited a molecular mass of 30.8 kDa in SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Its pI was 6.3 as determined by isoelectric focusing. The specific activity of the chitinase was estimated to be 3.81 U/mg. The enzyme expressed its optimum activity at pH 5.4 and was stable from 40 to 50 degrees C. It exerted antifungal action toward Fusarium solani, Fusarium oxysporum, Mycosphaerella arachidicola, Pythium aphanidermatum, and Sclerotium rolfsii. 
10590467	19991211	Yeast	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of MELt gene from Torulaspora delbrueckii IFO 1255.	Torulaspora delbrueckii IFO 1255 is a melibiose-fermenting strain in Torulaspora species. From the genome of strain IFO 1255, we obtained a 770 bp fragment by PCR with oligonucleotides synthesized based on the MEL genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its related species. The region encompassing the 770 bp fragment was cloned by inverse PCR and sequenced. The nucleotide sequence revealed an open reading frame of 1422 bp encoding a 474 amino acid protein with a molecular weight of 52 360. The similarity of the presumed mature protein to Saccharomyces species and Zygosaccharomyces cidri alpha-galactosidases was 69.7-73.2% and 58.4%, respectively. The phylogenetic relationship between these species is discussed. The sequence is deposited in the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank database under Accession No. AB027130. 
16599567	20060408	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 D013485 	Efficiency of new fungal cellulase systems in boosting enzymatic degradation of barley straw lignocellulose.	This study examined the cellulytic effects on steam-pretreated barley straw of cellulose-degrading enzyme systems from the five thermophilic fungi Chaetomium thermophilum, Thielavia terrestris, Thermoascus aurantiacus, Corynascus thermophilus, and Myceliophthora thermophila and from the mesophile Penicillum funiculosum. The catalytic glucose release was compared after treatments with each of the crude enzyme systems when added to a benchmark blend of a commercial cellulase product, Celluclast, derived from Trichoderma reesei and a beta-glucosidase, Novozym 188, from Aspergillus niger. The enzymatic treatments were evaluated in an experimental design template comprising a span of pH (3.5-6.5) and temperature (35-65 degrees C) reaction combinations. The addition to Celluclast + Novozym 188 of low dosages of the crude enzyme systems, corresponding to 10 wt % of the total enzyme protein load, increased the catalytic glucose yields significantly as compared to those obtained with the benchmark Celluclast + Novozyme 188 blend. A comparison of glucose yields obtained on steam-pretreated barley straw and microcrystalline cellulose, Avicel, indicated that the yield improvements were mainly due to the presence of highly active endoglucanase activity/activities in the experimental enzyme preparations. The data demonstrated the feasibility of boosting the widely studied T. reeseicellulase enzyme system with additional enzymatic activity to achieve faster lignocellulose degradation. We conclude that this supplementation strategy appears feasible as a first step in identifying truly promising fungal enzyme sources for fast development of improved, commercially viable, enzyme preparations for lignocellulose degradation. 
1711992	19910515	Gene	D003160 D016428 	Cloning, sequence and chromosomal location of a MEL gene from Saccharomyces carlsbergensis NCYC396.	Yeast strains producing alpha-galactosidase (alpha Gal) are able to use melibiose as a carbon source during growth or fermentation. We cloned a MEL gene from Saccharomyces carlsbergensis NCYC396 through hybridization to the MEL1 gene cloned earlier from Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. uvarum. The alpha Gal encoded by the newly cloned gene was galactose-inducible as is the alpha Gal encoded by MEL1. A probable GAL4-protein recognition sequence was found in the upstream region of the NCYC396 MEL gene. The gene was transcribed to a 1.5-kb mRNA which, according to the nucleotide sequence, encodes a protein of 471 amino acids (aa) with an Mr of 52,006. The first 18 aa fulfilled the criteria for the signal sequence, but lacked positively charged aa residues, except the initiating methionine. The enzyme activity was found exclusively in the cellular fraction of the cultures. The deduced aa sequence was compared to the aa sequences of other alpha Gal enzymes. It showed 83% identity with the S. cerevisiae enzyme, but only 35% with the plant enzyme, 30% with the human enzyme and 17% with the Escherichia coli enzyme. With pulsed-field electrophoresis, the MEL gene was located on chromosome X of S. carlsbergensis, whereas the S. cerevisiae var. uvarum MEL1 gene is located on chromosome II. 
10877800	20000706	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Studies on the production of fungal peroxidases in Aspergillus niger.	To get insight into the limiting factors existing for the efficient production of fungal peroxidase in filamentous fungi, the expression of the Phanerochaete chrysosporium lignin peroxidase H8 (lipA) and manganese peroxidase (MnP) H4 (mnp1) genes in Aspergillus niger has been studied. For this purpose, a protease-deficient A. niger strain and different expression cassettes have been used. Northern blotting experiments indicated high steady-state mRNA levels for the recombinant genes. Manganese peroxidase was secreted into the culture medium as an active protein. The recombinant protein showed specific activity and a spectrum profile similar to those of the native enzyme, was correctly processed at its N terminus, and had a slightly lower mobility on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Recombinant MnP production could be increased up to 100 mg/liter upon hemoglobin supplementation of the culture medium. Lignin peroxidase was also secreted into the extracellular medium, although the protein was not active, presumably due to incorrect processing of the secreted enzyme. Expression of the lipA and mnp1 genes fused to the A. niger glucoamylase gene did not result in improved production yields. 
10398828	19990710	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 	Influence of environmental conditions on hyphal morphology in pellets of Aspergillus niger: role of beta-N-acetyl-D-glucosaminidase.	The influence of modifications of the environmental conditions of growth on beta-N-acetyl-D-glucosaminidase (EC 3.2.1.30) activity and on hyphal morphological patterns in pellets of Aspergillus niger was studied. It was found that changes in the degree of branching and, to a lesser extent, in the number of bulbous cells were directly related to the activity of the enzyme. Nevertheless, since beta-N-acetyl-D-glucosaminidase is not the only enzyme involved in the lytic potential of the fungus, these findings do not exclude the possibility that other enzymes may be involved. 
17998157	20071114	Mycol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Rapid adhesion of Stagonospora nodorum spores to a hydrophobic surface requires pre-formed cell surface glycoproteins.	Adhesion of fungal pathogens to leaf surfaces is an important first step in the infection process. Previous work on Stagonospora nodorum, a major necrotrophic pathogen of wheat and other cereals, has shown that conidia attach rapidly to a hydrophobic surface and this is followed by the active secretion of extracellular matrix material to consolidate adhesion. In this paper the role of pre-formed spore surface glycoproteins in the rapid adhesion of S. nodorum conidia to an artificial surface, polystyrene, has been investigated. Sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) and the enzymes chitinase and lyticase have been used to release cell wall glycoproteins from spores and these have been identified using SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and Western blotting. Labelling with fluorescently tagged lectins has also been used to study the spore surface. The results show that there are a small number of glycoproteins non-covalently and covalently attached to other components in the spore wall, which is not a uniform structure. The effects of proteases, lectins, and other treatments of spores in an adhesion assay have been used to show that pre-formed glycoproteins are involved in rapid adhesion to a hydrophobic surface. There is also evidence for a rapid release of glycoproteins by spores that is also involved in adhesion and this is not an active process. 
16665751	19871101	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Purification and Characterization of a Polygalacturonase-Inhibiting Protein from Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Homogeneous endo-polygalacturonase (PG) was covalently bound to cyanogen-bromide-activated Sepharose, and the resulting PG-Sepharose conjugate was utilized to purify, by affinity chromatography, a protein from Phaseolus vulgaris hypocotyls that binds to and inhibits PG. Isoelectric focusing of the purified PG-inhibiting protein (PGIP) showed a major protein band that coincided with PG-inhibiting activity. PGIP formed a complex with PG at pH 5.0 and at low salt concentrations. The complex dissociated in 0.5 m Na-acetate and pH values lower than 4.5 or higher than 6.0. Formation of the PG-PGIP complex resulted in complete inhibition of PG activity. PG activity was restored upon dissociation of the complex. The protein exhibited inhibitory activity toward PGs from Colletotrichum lindemuthianum, Fusarium moniliforme and Aspergillus niger. The possible role of PGIP in regulating the activity of fungal PG's and their ability to elicit plant defense reactions are discussed. 
20346373	20100330	Mol._Biochem._Parasitol.	D016428 	Transcript analysis of parasitic females of the sedentary semi-endoparasitic nematode Rotylenchulus reniformis.	Rotylenchulus reniformis, the reniform nematode, is a sedentary semi-endoparasitic nematode capable of infecting >300 plant species, including a large number of crops such as cotton, soybean, and pineapple. In contrast to other economically important plant-parasitic nematodes, molecular genetic data regarding the R. reniformis transcriptome is virtually nonexistant. Herein, we present a survey of R. reniformis ESTs that were sequenced from a sedentary parasitic female cDNA library. Cluster analysis of 2004 high quality ESTs produced 123 contigs and 508 singletons for a total of 631 R. reniformis unigenes. BLASTX analyses revealed that 39% of all unigenes showed similarity to known proteins (E<or=1.0e-04). R. reniformis genes homologous to known parasitism genes were identified and included beta-1,4-endoglucanase, fatty acid- and retinol-binding proteins, and an esophageal gland cell-specific gene from Heterodera glycines. Furthermore, a putative ortholog of an enzyme involved in thiamin biosynthesis, thought to exist solely in prokaryotes, fungi, and plants, was identified. Lastly, 114 R. reniformis unigenes orthologous to RNAi-lethal Caenorhabditis elegans genes were discovered. The work described here offers a glimpse into the transcriptome of a sedentary semi-endoparasitic nematode which (i) provides the transcript sequence data necessary for investigating engineered resistance against R. reniformis and (ii) hints at the existance of a thiamin biosynthesis pathway in an animal. 
18154980	20071225	J_Chromatogr_A	D016428 D013485 	Rational design of a new one-step purification strategy for Candida antarctica lipase B by ion-exchange chromatography.	A fast and efficient one-step method for purification of lipase B from Candida antarctica by ion-exchange chromatography was developed by rational design. The electrostatic properties of the enzyme were calculated and validated by isoelectric focusing and measurement of the titration curve. C. antarctica lipase B shows an unusual pH profile with a broad isoelectric region from pH 4 to 8. At pH 3 C. antarctica lipase B can be bound to a cation-exchange chromatography column and was purified to homogeneity with a purification factor of 2.4. It was stable at pH 3, the residual activity was still 80% after 6 days incubation at 20 degrees C. The broad isoelectric region of C. antarctica lipase B is unique as compared to almost all other alpha/beta-hydrolases which have a well-defined isoelectric point. A search in the lipase engineering database resulted in only one further alpha/beta-hydrolase, the Fusarium solani cutinase, which also has a broad isoelectric region. 
18931291	20081022	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	High-temperature ethanol fermentation and transformation with linear DNA in the thermotolerant yeast Kluyveromyces marxianus DMKU3-1042.	We demonstrate herein the ability of Kluyveromyces marxianus to be an efficient ethanol producer and host for expressing heterologous proteins as an alternative to Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Growth and ethanol production by strains of K. marxianus and S. cerevisiae were compared under the same conditions. K. marxianus DMKU3-1042 was found to be the most suitable strain for high-temperature growth and ethanol production at 45 degrees C. This strain, but not S. cerevisiae, utilized cellobiose, xylose, xylitol, arabinose, glycerol, and lactose. To develop a K. marxianus DMKU3-1042 derivative strain suitable for genetic engineering, a uracil auxotroph was isolated and transformed with a linear DNA of the S. cerevisiae ScURA3 gene. Surprisingly, Ura(+) transformants were easily obtained. By Southern blot hybridization, the linear ScURA3 DNA was found to have inserted randomly into the K. marxianus genome. Sequencing of one Lys(-) transformant confirmed the disruption of the KmLYS1 gene by the ScURA3 insertion. A PCR-amplified linear DNA lacking K. marxianus sequences but containing an Aspergillus alpha-amylase gene under the control of the ScTDH3 promoter together with an ScURA3 marker was subsequently used to transform K. marxianus DMKU3-1042 in order to obtain transformants expressing Aspergillus alpha-amylase. Our results demonstrate that K. marxianus DMKU3-1042 can be an alternative cost-effective bioethanol producer and a host for transformation with linear DNA by use of S. cerevisiae-based molecular genetic tools. 
17376440	20070323	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Crystal structure of intracellular family 1 beta-glucosidase BGL1A from the basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	The white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium has two intracellular beta-glucosidases (BGL1A and BGL1B) belonging to glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 1. BGL1B effectively hydrolyzes cellobiose and cellobionolactone, but BGL1A does not. We have determined the crystal structure of BGL1A in substrate-free and gluconolactone complexed forms. The overall structure and the characteristic of subsite -1 (glycone site) were similar to those of other known GH1 enzymes. The loop regions covering on the (beta/alpha)(8) barrel was significantly deviated, and they form a unique subsite +1 (aglycone site) of BGL1A. 
10341054	19990526	Microb._Ecol.	D016428 	Effects of Pseudomonas fluorescens F113 on Ecological Functions in the Pea Rhizosphere Are Dependent on pH.	> Abstract The aim of this microcosm study was to determine influence of the antibiotic 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (DAPG) on the effect of wild-type and functionally modified Pseudomonas fluorescens F113 strains in a sandy loam soil of pH 5.4 planted with pea (Pisum sativum var Montana). The functional modification of strain F113 was a repressed production of DAPG, useful in plant disease control, creating the DAPG negative strain F113 G22; both were marked with a lacZY gene cassette. Lowering the soil pH to 4.4 significantly reduced the plant shoot and root weights and the root length, whereas the bacterial inocula had no significant effect. Both inocula significantly reduced the shoot/root ratio at pH 5.4, but this effect was not evident at the lowered or elevated (6.4) pH levels. The decrease in pH significantly increased the fungal and yeast colony-forming units from the rhizosphere (root extract), but did not affect the total bacterial c.f.u.'s. Inoculatioin with strain F113 in the pH 4.4 soil resulted in a significantly greater total bacterial population. The fungal and yeast c.f.u.'s were not significantly affected by the inocula at any pH studied. Increasing the pH significantly increased the indigenous Pseudomonas population in comparison to the reduced pH treatment and significantly increased both the introduced and total Pseudomonas populations. The antibiotic producing strain significantly reduced the total bacterial population and the NAGase activity (related to fungal activity) at pH 6.4 where the inocula population was the greatest. Alkaline phosphatase, phosphodiesterase, aryl sulfatase, beta-glucosidase, alkaline beta-galactosidase, and NAGase activities significantly increased with increasing in pH. The F113 inocula reduced the acid phosphatase activity at pH 5.4 and increased the acid beta-galactosidase activity over all the pH treatments. The results presented illustrate the variation in impact with soil pH, with implications for variability in efficacy of Pseudomonas fluorescens biocontrol agents with soil pH.http://link.springer-ny.com/link/service/journals/00248/bibs/37n4p248.html 
22367944	20120228	J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Chitinase production by Bacillus thuringiensis and Bacillus licheniformis: their potential in antifungal biocontrol.	Thirty bacterial strains were isolated from the rhizosphere of plants collected from Egypt and screened for production of chitinase enzymes. Bacillus thuringiensis NM101-19 and Bacillus licheniformis NM120-17 had the highest chitinolytic activities amongst those investigated. The production of chitinase by B. thuringiensis and B. licheniformis was optimized using colloidal chitin medium amended with 1.5% colloidal chitin, with casein as a nitrogen source, at 30°C after five days of incubation. An enhancement of chitinase production by the two species was observed by addition of sugar substances and dried fungal mats to the colloidal chitin media. The optimal conditions for chitinase activity by B. thuringiensis and B. licheniformis were at 40°C, pH 7.0 and pH 8.0, respectively. Na(+), Mg(2+), Cu(2+), and Ca(2+) caused enhancement of enzyme activities whereas they were markedly inhibited by Zn(2+), Hg(2+), and Ag(+). In vitro, B. thuringiensis and B. licheniformis chitinases had potential for cell wall lysis of many phytopathogenic fungi tested. The addition of B. thuringiensis chitinase was more effective than that of B. licheniformis in increasing the germination of soybean seeds infected with various phytopathogenic fungi. 
2493265	19890223	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013486 D013487 	Characterization and localization of the sporulation glucoamylase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Glucoamylase (SGA) was purified approximately 250-fold from sporulating Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. The partially purified enzyme was active against glycogen, starch, maltotriose and maltose. It exhibited maximum catalytic activity against glycogen at pH 5.5. The enzyme appears to be glycosylated, because it bound to lentil-lectin Sepharose. SGA was expressed in vegetatively growing cells under the control of the GAL1 promoter, and the cellular location of the enzymatic activity determined by fractionation techniques. SGA was preferentially recovered in fractions which were enriched for the vacuolar hydrolases, carboxypeptidase Y and alpha-mannosidase. 
9490074	19980307	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Structural investigation of the exopolysaccharide produced by Pseudomonas flavescens strain B62--degradation by a fungal cellulase and isolation of the oligosaccharide repeating unit.	Pseudomonas flavescens strain B62 (NCPPB 3063) is a recently described bacterium isolated from walnut blight cankers. This strain has been designated as the type strain of a Pseudomonas rRNA group-I species. Strain B62 produced a mixture of two exopolysaccharides, differing in weight average relative molecular mass and composition. Only the most abundant exopolysaccharide (90% by mass), corresponding to the one with the lower molecular mass, was investigated by use of methylation analysis, partial acid hydrolysis, and NMR spectroscopy. The polysaccharide was depolymerised by the action of the cellulase produced by Penicillum funiculosum and the oligosaccharide obtained, corresponding to the repeating unit, was characterised by NMR spectroscopy and ion-spray mass spectrometry. The repeating unit of the B62 exopolysaccharide is [structure in text] where X is glucose (75%) or mannose (25%), and Lac is lactate. The O-acetyl groups are present only on 75% of the repeating units, and they are linked to the C6 of the hexose residues in non-stoichiometric amounts. 
19619651	20090722	Mycol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Multilocus phylogenetic analyses, pullulan production and xylanase activity of tropical isolates of Aureobasidium pullulans.	Aureobasidium pullulans is the source of the commercially valuable polysaccharide pullulan and the enzyme xylanase. Isolates are typically off-white to pale pink or black on solid media, while some tropical isolates have been described as 'color variants' with bright pigments of red, yellow or purple. We sequenced 5 loci (internal transcribed spacer, intergenic spacer 1, translation elongation factor-1 alpha, beta tubulin, and RNA polymerase II) from 45 new isolates from Thailand. Based on the phylogenetic analyses, isolates were classified into 12 clades. Each clade showed different colors on different culture media including two clades with 'color variants' and some clades exhibited high levels of pullulan production or xylanase activity. Colony characteristics do not correlate perfectly with DNA sequence phylogeny or the physiological characters, but DNA sequence differences rapidly identify isolates with genetic novelty. 
7248366	19800901	Biokhimiia	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Hydrolysis of microcrystalline cellulose by multienzyme cellulase complexes of various origins].	The kinetic regularities of glucose and cellobiose formation from microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) under the action of cellulase complexes from eight different sources were studied. By means of successive addition of selected components of the cellulase complexes (endoglucanase and cellobiase) to the reaction system the rate-limiting steps for multienzymatic hydrolysis of MCC were determined. It was shown that in most cases the rate-limiting step of glucose formation (via hydrolysis of the intermediate cellobiose) is the cellobiase action. In a single case only (with a cellulase complex from Aspergillus foetidus enriched with cellobiase) the rate of glucose formation from MCC was limited by the endoglucanase action. In accordance with the kinetic theory developed it was shown that the addition of cellobiase excess to the reaction system resulted in changes of the rate-limiting step over to endoglucanase attack on the non-soluble cellulose for all cellulase complexes under study. Under the given experimental conditions a linear correlation between the steady-state ready of glucose formation from MCC under the action of all cellulase complexes on the on hand, and the endoglucanase activity of these complexes, on the other, was established. It was shown that the action of all cellulase (arbitrarily selected ones) is described by principally the same kinetic regularities, which, in turn, is indicative of identical mechanisms for hydrolysis of the insoluble cellulose under effects of cellulase complexes of various origin. 
10686151	20000225	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013487 	Vectors allowing amplified expression of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Gal3p-Gal80p-Gal4p transcription switch: applications to galactose-regulated high-level production of proteins.	The Gal4, Gal80, and Gal3 proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae constitute a galactose-responsive regulatory switch for GAL gene promoters. The low cellular levels of these proteins have hampered mechanistic studies and limit the utility of the GAL gene promoters for high-yield production of endogenous and exogenous proteins. We have constructed two new vectors, pMEGA2 and pMEGA2-DeltaURA3, that increase the level of the Gal4p-Gal80p-Gal3p switch proteins under conditions that preserve the Gal3p-Gal80p-Gal4p stoichiometries required for normal switch function. Cells carrying pMEGA2 show 15- to 20-fold more Gal4p and 30- to 40-fold more Gal3p and Gal80p than cells lacking pMEGA2. These high levels of Gal4p, Gal80p, and Gal3p do not perturb the integrity of galactose-inducible regulation. Cells that carry pMEGA2 exhibit normal galactose-induction kinetics for the chromosomal MEL1 gene expression and normal, albeit slower, log-phase growth. Insertion of the MEL1 gene into pMEGA2 provides a 24- to 30-fold increase in the Mel1 protein. Cells carrying a 2-microm-based URA3-selectable plasmid containing a GAL1pro:lacZ reporter gene and a second plasmid, pMEGA2-DeltaURA3, produce 12-fold more beta-galactosidase than cells carrying only the GAL1pro:lacZ reporter plasmid. The performance of the MEGA plasmids in providing amplified production of the Gal3, Gal80, and Gal4 proteins should prove useful in investigations of the mechanistic aspects of these transcription switch proteins and in work aimed at achieving high-level, galactose-regulatable production of proteins in yeast. 
23242634	20121218	Mol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning, molecular characterization, and mRNA expression of the thermostable family 3 β-glucosidase from the rare fungus Stachybotrys microspora.	The filamentous fungus Stachybotrys microspora possess a rich β-glucosidase system composed of five β-glucosidases. Three of them were already purified to homogeneity and characterized. In order to isolate the β-glucosidase genes from S. microspora and study their regulation, a PCR strategy using consensus primers was used as a first step. This approach enabled the isolation of three different fragments of family 3 β-glucosidase gene. A representative genomic library was constructed and probed with one amplified fragment gene belonging to family 3 of β-glucosidase. After two rounds of hybridization, seven clones were obtained and the analysis of DNA plasmids leads to the isolation of one clone (CF3) with the largest insert of 7 kb. The regulatory region shows multiple TC-rich elements characteristic of constitutive promoter, explaining the expression of this gene under glucose condition, as shown by zymogram and RT-PCR analysis. The tertiary structure of the deduced amino acid sequence of Smbgl3 was predicted and has shown three conserved domains: an (α/β)8 triose phosphate isomerase (TIM) barrel, (α/β)5 sandwich, and fibronectin type III domain involved in protein thermostability. Zymogram analysis highlighted such thermostable character of this novel β-glucosidase. 
12383437	20021018	J._Invertebr._Pathol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning, characterisation, and expression of a neutral trehalase from the insect pathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae.	A neutral trehalase gene (NTH1) was isolated from a lambdaEMBL3 genomic library of the insect pathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae. Sequencing of the gene revealed extensive homology with other fungal neutral trehalases. The NTH1 gene exists as a single copy in the genome. Two STREs exist in the 5'UTR of NTH1, which may mediate transcriptional activation of the NTH1 gene in response to various stresses. The NTH1 gene encodes a protein of 737 amino acids with a calculated M(r) of 83.1kDa. A cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-dependent phosphorylation consensus site and a putative calcium binding site were found in the amino-terminal domain of NTH1, consistent with a regulatory enzyme. Expression of the trehalase cDNA was achieved in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Southern blot analysis of RT-PCR products indicated that the neutral trehalase gene is transcribed in vitro in cell-free haemolymph of the tobacco hornworm Manduca sexta and in vivo in the early stage of infection. 
23247825	20121219	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Xylitol production by genetically engineered Trichoderma reesei strains using barley straw as feedstock.	Xylitol, a naturally occurring five-carbon sugar alcohol derived from D-xylose, is currently in high demand by industries. Trichoderma reesei, a prolific industrial cellulase and hemicellulase producing fungus, is able to selectively use D-xylose from hemicelluloses for xylitol production. The xylitol production by T. reesei can be enhanced by genetic engineering of blocking further xylitol metabolism in the D-xylose pathway. We have used two different T. reesei strains which are impaired in the further metabolism of xylitol including a single mutant in which the xylitol dehydrogenase gene was deleted (∆xdh1) and a double mutant where additionally L-arabinitol-4-dehydrogenase, an enzyme which can partially compensate for xylitol dehydrogenase function, was deleted (∆lad1∆xdh1). Barely straw was first pretreated using NaOH and Organosolv pretreatment methods. The highest xylitol production of 6.1 and 13.22 g/L was obtained using medium supplemented with 2 % Organosolv-pretreated barley straw and 2 % D-xylose by the ∆xdh1 and ∆lad1∆xdh1 strains, respectively. 
9061031	19970228	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013487 	Site-directed mutants of post-translationally modified sites of yeast eEF1A using a shuttle vector containing a chromogenic switch.	Eukaryotic elongation factor 1A (eEF1A, formerly eEF-1 alpha) carries aminoacyl-tRNAs into the A-site of the ribosome in a GTP-dependent manner. In order to probe the structure/function relationships of eEF1A, we have generated site-directed mutants using a modification of a highly versatile yeast shuttle vector, which consists of the insertion of a 66 base long synthetic DNA fragment in the vector's polylinker. Via oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis, the modification permits the identification of mutant clones based on a chromogenic screen of beta-galactosidase activity. Mutagenesis reactions are performed with two or more oligonucleotides, one introducing the chromogenic shift, and the other(s) introducing the mutation(s) of interest in eEF1A. Several rounds of chromogenic shifts and additional mutations can be performed in succession on the same vector. To address the possible function of the methylated lysines in yeast eEF1A, we have changed the post-translationally modified lysines (residue 30, 79, 316 and 390) to arginines using the above methodology. Yeast with eEF1A mutants that substitute arginine in all four sites do not show any phenotypic change. There is also an apparent equivalency of wild-type and mutant yeast eEF1A in in vitro assays. It is concluded that the post-translational modifications of eEF1A are not of major importance for eEF1A's role in translation. 
9003317	19961213	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Functional analysis of the cellobiohydrolase I promoter of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei.	Functional analysis of the cellulase promoter cbh1 of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei was carried out using the Escherichia coli lacZ gene as a reporter. An assay based on cultivation on solid medium in microtiter plates was developed that allows rapid and reliable semiquantitative analysis of beta-galactosidase expression of a large number of transformants. A series of deletions and specifically designed alterations were made covering 2.2 kb of the cbh1 promoter. Removal of sequences upstream of nucleotide -500 in relation to the initiator ATG abolished glucose repression. Mutation of a single hexanucleotide sequence 5'GTGGGG at nucleotide -720 was sufficient for derepression. This site is similar to the binding sites of the glucose repressors MIG1 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and CREA/CREI of filamentous fungi. Removal of the glucose repressor site did not affect sophorose induction. Sophorose induction of the promoter was retained even in deletion derivatives lacking sequences upstream of position -161, which retained about 70 bp upstream of the transcription start point and only 30 bp upstream of the TATA box. 
7729761	19940101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	Direct selection shuttle plasmid vector, pPW264, used for cloning the alpha-amylase gene of Schwanniomyces occidentalis.	We constructed a novel cloning system with positive selection for inserted fragments. The gene for tetracycline resistance (tetR) originally used in plasmid pTR262 was replaced with the gene for chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (cat) and terminator sequences were introduced downstream of the cat gene. The terminator sequences stop transcription originating on strong PR promoter that would otherwise proceed through the region of replication origin and interfere with plasmid replication. Thus the copy number of recombinant plasmid molecules is stabilized. The cloning system has been constructed in a new YEp type shuttle vector, pPW264. The 8.1 kb-vector carries two unique cloning sites, BglII and HindIII. The maintenance of the vector and selection in yeast is ensured by URA3 Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene. The vector was employed in cloning of the gene for alpha-amylase from Schwanniomyces occidentalis. 
22476551	20120406	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Precipitation of Trichoderma reesei commercial cellulase preparations under standard enzymatic hydrolysis conditions for lignocelluloses.	Comparative studies between commercial Trichoderma reesei cellulase preparations show that, depending on the preparation and loading, total protein precipitation can be as high as 30 % under standard hydrolysis conditions used for lignocellulosic materials. ATR-IR and SDS-PAGE data verify precipitates are protein-based and contain key cell wall hydrolyzing enzymes. Precipitation increased considerably with incubation temperature; roughly 50-150 % increase from 40 to 50 °C and 800 % greater at 60 °C. All of the reported protein losses translated into significant, and often drastic, losses in activity on related 4-nitrophenyl substrates. In addition, supplementation with the non-ionic surfactant PEG 6,000 decreased precipitation up to 80 % in 24 h precipitation levels. Protein precipitation is potentially substantial during enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocelluloses and should be accounted for during lignocellulose conversion process design, particularly when enzyme recycling is considered. 
17641888	20070721	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Transcriptional regulation of two cellobiohydrolase encoding genes (cel1 and cel2) from the wood-degrading basidiomycete Polyporus arcularius.	In the current studies, we sequenced and characterized the genomic and complementary deoxyribonucleic acid clones encoding the cellobiohydrolase encoding genes cel1 and cel2 of Polyporus arcularius. The predicted amino acid sequences of Cel1 and Cel2 are similar to glycosyl hydrolase family 7 and 6 proteins, respectively. The expression of cel1 and cel2 was induced by microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel) and cellopentaose but repressed by glucose, cellobiose, cellotriose, and cellotetraose. There was a very low level of cel1 and cel2 transcription regardless of the carbon source. These results suggest that P. arcularius cells constitutively express a very low level of cellulase that can degrade insoluble crystalline cellulose and that the transcription of cel1 and cel2 in the cells is induced by products produced by these endoglucanases such as cellooligosaccharides. 
11049740	20001026	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013485 	Purification of alpha-amylase isoenzymes from Scytalidium thermophilum on a fluidized bed of alginate beads followed by concanavalin A-agarose column chromatography.	An alpha-amylase has been purified from the thermophilic fungus Scytalidium thermophilum. A ninefold purification was achieved in a single step using fluidized bed chromatography wherein alginate was used as the affinity matrix. There are at least two isoenzymes as shown by concanavalin A (Con A)-agarose column chromatography. The isoenzyme binding to Con A is stable for at least 3 h at 80 degrees C in the presence of calcium ions. The isoenzymes have similar molecular weights of around 45,000 Da as shown by SDS-PAGE analysis. The isoenzymes differ only slightly in their pH optima and temperature optima but the isoenzyme binding to Con A-agarose has slightly higher thermal stability. 
17896184	20070927	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression of Fusarium oxysporum tomatinase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae increases its resistance to saponins and improves ethanol production during the fermentation of Agave tequilana Weber var. azul and Agave salmiana must.	This paper describes the effect of the heterologous expression of tomatinase from Fusarium oxysporum f. sp lycopersici in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The gene FoTom1 under the control of the S. cerevisiae phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK1) promoter was cloned into pYES2. S. cerevisiae strain Y45 was transformed with this vector and URA3 transformant strains were selected for resistance to alpha-tomatine. Two transformants were randomly selected for further study (designated Y45-1 and Y45-2). Control strain Y45 was inhibited at 50 muM alpha-tomatine, in contrast, transformants Y45-1 and Y45-2 did not show inhibition at 200 muM. Tomatinase activity was detected by HPLC monitoring tomatine disappearance and tomatidine appearance in the supernatants of culture medium. Maximum tomatinase activity was observed in the transformants after 6 h, remaining constant during the following 24 h. No tomatinase activity was detected in the parental strain. Moreover, the transformants were able to grow and produce ethanol in a mix of Agave tequilana Weber var. azul and Agave salmiana must, contrary to the Y45 strain which was unable to grow and ferment under these conditions. 
23398910	20130213	BMC_Genomics	D016428 D013485 	Antagonistic, overlapping and distinct responses to biotic stress in rice (Oryza sativa) and interactions with abiotic stress.	Every year, substantial crop loss occurs globally, as a result of bacterial, fungal, parasite and viral infections in rice. Here, we present an in-depth investigation of the transcriptomic response to infection with the destructive bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae(Xoo) in both resistant and susceptible varieties of Oryza sativa. A comparative analysis to fungal, parasite and viral infection in rice is also presented. Within 24 h of Xoo inoculation, significant reduction of cell wall components and induction of several signalling components, membrane bound receptor kinases and specific WRKY and NAC transcription factors was prominent, providing a framework for how the presence of this pathogen was signalled and response mounted. Extensive comparative analyses of various other pathogen responses, including in response to infection with another bacterium (Xoc), resistant and susceptible parasite infection, fungal, and viral infections, led to a proposed model for the rice biotic stress response. In this way, a conserved induction of calcium signalling functions, and specific WRKY and NAC transcription factors, was identified in response to all biotic stresses. Comparison of these responses to abiotic stress (cold, drought, salt, heat), enabled the identification of unique genes responsive only to bacterial infection, 240 genes responsive to both abiotic and biotic stress, and 135 genes responsive to biotic, but not abiotic stresses. Functional significance of a number of these genes, using genetic inactivation or over-expression, has revealed significant stress-associated phenotypes. While only a few antagonistic responses were observed between biotic and abiotic stresses, e.g. for a number of endochitinases and kinase encoding genes, some of these may be crucial in explaining greater pathogen infection and damage under abiotic stresses. The analyses presented here provides a global view of the responses to multiple stresses, further validates known resistance-associated genes, and highlights new potential target genes, some lineage specific to rice, that play important roles in response to stress, providing a roadmap to develop varieties of rice that are more resistant to multiple biotic and abiotic stresses, as encountered in nature. 
12908861	20030812	AIHA_J_(Fairfax,_Va)	D016428 	Job categories and their effect on exposure to fungal alpha-amylase and inhalable dust in the U.K. baking industry.	Enzymes in flour improver, in particular fungal alpha-amylase, are known to be a significant cause of respiratory allergy in the baking industry. This study measured total inhalable dust and fungal alpha-amylase exposures in U.K. bakeries, mills, and a flour improver production and packing facility and determined whether assignment of job description could identify individuals with the highest exposures to fungal alpha-amylase and inhalable dust. A total of 117 personal samples were taken for workers in 19 bakeries, 2 mills, and a flour improver production and packing facility and were analyzed using a monoclonal based immunoassay. Occupational hygiene surveys were undertaken for each site to assign job description and identify individuals who worked directly with flour improvers. Analysis of exposure data identified that mixers and weighers from large bakeries had the highest exposures to both inhalable dust and fungal alpha-amylase among the different categories of bakery workers (p<.01). Currently, the maximum exposure limit for flour dust in the United Kingdom is 10 mg/m(3) (8-hour time-weighted average reference period). In this study 25% of the total dust results for bakers exceeded 10 mg/m(3), and interestingly, 63% of the individuals with exposure levels exceeding 10 mg/m(3) were weighers and mixers. Individuals who worked directly with flour improvers were exposed to higher levels of both inhalable dust and fungal alpha-amylase (p<.01) than those who were not directly handling these products. Before sensitive immunoassays were utilized for the detection of specific inhalable allergens, gravimetric analysis was often used as a surrogate. There was a weak relationship between inhalable dust and fungal alpha-amylase exposures; however, inhalable dust levels could not be used to predict amylase exposures, which highlights the importance of measuring both inhalable dust and fungal alpha-amylase exposures. 
22432613	20120322	Annu_Rev_Chem_Biomol_Eng	D016428 D013486 D016454 	Deconstruction of lignocellulosic biomass to fuels and chemicals.	Plants represent a vast, renewable resource and are well suited to provide sustainably for humankind's transportation fuel needs. To produce infrastructure-compatible fuels from biomass, two challenges remain: overcoming plant cell wall recalcitrance to extract sugar and phenolic intermediates, and reduction of oxygenated intermediates to fuel molecules. To compete with fossil-based fuels, two primary routes to deconstruct cell walls are under development, namely biochemical and thermochemical conversion. Here, we focus on overcoming recalcitrance with biochemical conversion, which uses low-severity thermochemical pretreatment followed by enzymatic hydrolysis to produce soluble sugars. Many challenges remain, including understanding how pretreatments affect the physicochemical nature of heterogeneous cell walls; determination of how enzymes deconstruct the cell wall effectively with the aim of designing superior catalysts; and resolution of issues associated with the co-optimization of pretreatment, enzymatic hydrolysis, and fermentation. Here, we highlight some of the scientific challenges and open questions with a particular focus on problems across multiple length scales. 
17483939	20070508	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Microencapsulated bacterial cells can be used to produce the enzyme feruloyl esterase: preparation and in-vitro analysis.	Biotechnological production of ferulic acid, a precursor of vanillin, is an attractive alternative for various industries due to the high price and demand for natural ferulic acid. Feruloyl esterase has been identified as a key enzyme involved in microbial transformations of ferulic acid to vanillin. Several fungal feruloyl esterases have been purified and characterized for their use in the production of ferulic acid. This paper, for the first time, discusses the use of lactic acid bacteria for the production of ferulic acid. Specifically, we have used Lactobacillus cells and microencapsulation so that ferulic acid can be produced continuously using various types of fermentation systems. Bacteria were encapsulated in alginate-poly-L-lysine-alginate (APA) microcapsules, and the production of ferulic acid by lactobacilli was detected using a real-time high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-based assay. Results show that ferulic acid can be produced using microencapsulated Lactobacillus fermentum (ATCC 11976) with significant levels of biological feruloyl esterase activity. 
10891380	20000713	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Mungin, a novel cyclophilin-like antifungal protein from the mung bean.	A protein designated mungin, isolated from mung bean (Phaseolus mungo) seeds, possessed activity against the fungi Rhizoctonia solani, Coprinus comatus, Mycosphaerella arachidicola, Botrytis cinerea, and Fusarium oxysporum. The 18-kDa protein also possessed a novel N-terminal sequence with similarity to cyclophilins. It exerts an inhibitory action against alpha- and beta-glucosidases suppresses [(3)H]thymidine in corporation by mouse splenocytes. 
16568317	20060329	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production and partial characterization of arabinoxylan-degrading enzymes by Penicillium brasilianum under solid-state fermentation.	The production of a battery of arabinoxylan-degrading enzymes by the fungus Penicillium brasilianum grown on brewer's spent grain (BSG) under solid-state fermentation was investigated. Initial moisture content, initial pH, temperature, and nitrogen source content were optimized to achieve maximum production of feruloyl esterase, xylanase, and alpha-L: -arabinofuranosidase. Under the optimum growth conditions (80% moisture, pH 6, 26.5 degrees C, and 5 g/l nitrogen source), the maximum level of feruloyl esterase (1,542 mU/g BSG) was found after 196 h, whereas xylanase (709 U/g BSG) and ArabF activity (3,567 mU/g BSG) were maximal after 108 h and 96 h, respectively. Based on substrate utilization data, the feruloyl esterases produced by P. brasilianum was anticipated to subclass B. A crude enzyme (CE) preparation from P. brasilianum culture grown on BSG was tested for the release of hydroxycinnamic acids and pentoses from BSG. The P. brasilianum CE produced in this work contains a balance of cell wall-modifying enzymes capable of degrading arabinoxylan of BSG by more than 40%. 
19206107	20090212	Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	A proteomic evaluation of Pyrenophora tritici-repentis, causal agent of tan spot of wheat, reveals major differences between virulent and avirulent isolates.	Pyrenophora tritici-repentis causes tan spot, an important foliar disease of wheat. The fungus produces multiple host-specific toxins, including Ptr ToxB, a chlorosis-inducing protein encoded by the ToxB gene. A homolog of ToxB is also found in avirulent isolates of the fungus. In order to improve understanding of the role of this homolog and evaluate the general pathogenic ability of P. tritici-repentis, we compared the proteomes of avirulent race 4 and virulent race 5 isolates of the pathogen. Western blotting analysis revealed the presence of Ptr ToxB in spore germination and culture fluids of race 5 but not race 4. A comprehensive proteome-level comparison by 2-DE indicated 133 differentially abundant proteins in the secretome (29 proteins) and mycelium (104 proteins) of races 4 and 5, of which 63 were identified by MS/MS. A number of the proteins found to be up-regulated in race 5 have been implicated in microbial virulence in other pathosystems, and included the secreted enzymes alpha-mannosidase and exo-beta-1,3-glucanase, heat-shock and BiP proteins, and various metabolic enzymes. These proteome-level differences suggest a reduced general pathogenic ability in race 4 of P. tritici-repentis, irrespective of toxin production. Such differences may reflect an adaptation to a saprophytic habit. 
16468040	20060210	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Agrobacterium T-DNA-mediated integration and gene replacement in the brown rot pathogen Monilinia fructicola.	A transformation system utilizing Agrobacterium tumefaciens was developed for targeted gene disruption in Monilinia fructicola, a fungal pathogen that causes brown rot disease of stone fruits. Transformation with a vector containing the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) cassette flanked with 4 kb cutinase gene (Mfcut1) flanking sequences resulted in an average of 13 transformants per 10(5) spores. When assayed by PCR and DNA blot analyses, more than 50% of the transformants recovered had integrated in the targeted Mfcut1 locus. Both target-gene-specific and non-specific integrations carried direct (head-to-tail) repeat T-DNA integrations. Sequence analysis of these T-DNA integrations revealed that 26 bp of the T-DNA right border were missing at the junctions between direct repeats in all cases. The recombination event during non-specific T-DNA integration in this fungus was unlike that reported in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in plants. 
10872083	20000629	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Overproduction in Escherichia coli of the pectin methylesterase A from Erwinia chrysanthemi 3937: one-step purification, biochemical characterization, and production of polyclonal antibodies.	Pectin methylesterase A (EC 3.1.1.11), one of the pathogenicity factors of Erwinia chrysanthemi strain 3937, was purified to homogeneity using one-step chromatography on cross-linked pectate. The purified protein showed maximum activity at pH 8-9, 50 degrees C, 50-100 mM monovalent cations or 5-10 mM divalent cations, and on a 50% esterified pectin. A particular effect of Ca2+ and Zn2+ on PMEA activity, due to the formation of a pectin gel, was observed. A Km value of 0.03% and 0.051% was determined at pH 6 and 7.6, respectively, using the same substrate. Polyclonal antibodies raised against the PMEA from E. chrysanthemi strain 3937 were produced. It recognized PMEs from Erwinia species, but did not cross-react with PME of fungal or plant origin, and will therefore be a useful tool to immunolocalize the protein during plant-pathogen interactions. 
21860379	20110824	J_Vis_Exp	D016428 D013485 D059040 	High throughput screening of fungal endoglucanase activity in Escherichia coli.	Cellulase enzymes (endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and β-glucosidases) hydrolyze cellulose into component sugars, which in turn can be converted into fuel alcohols. The potential for enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulosic biomass to provide renewable energy has intensified efforts to engineer cellulases for economical fuel production. Of particular interest are fungal cellulases, which are already being used industrially for foods and textiles processing. Identifying active variants among a library of mutant cellulases is critical to the engineering process; active mutants can be further tested for improved properties and/or subjected to additional mutagenesis. Efficient engineering of fungal cellulases has been hampered by a lack of genetic tools for native organisms and by difficulties in expressing the enzymes in heterologous hosts. Recently, Morikawa and coworkers developed a method for expressing in E. coli the catalytic domains of endoglucanases from H. jecorina, an important industrial fungus with the capacity to secrete cellulases in large quantities. Functional E. coli expression has also been reported for cellulases from other fungi, including Macrophomina phaseolina and Phanerochaete chrysosporium. We present a method for high throughput screening of fungal endoglucanase activity in E. coli. This method uses the common microbial dye Congo Red (CR) to visualize enzymatic degradation of carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) by cells growing on solid medium. The activity assay requires inexpensive reagents, minimal manipulation, and gives unambiguous results as zones of degradation ("halos") at the colony site. Although a quantitative measure of enzymatic activity cannot be determined by this method, we have found that halo size correlates with total enzymatic activity in the cell. Further characterization of individual positive clones will determine , relative protein fitness. Traditional bacterial whole cell CMC/CR activity assays involve pouring agar containing CMC onto colonies, which is subject to cross-contamination, or incubating cultures in CMC agar wells, which is less amenable to large-scale experimentation. Here we report an improved protocol that modifies existing wash methods for cellulase activity: cells grown on CMC agar plates are removed prior to CR staining. Our protocol significantly reduces cross-contamination and is highly scalable, allowing the rapid screening of thousands of clones. In addition to H. jecorina enzymes, we have expressed and screened endoglucanase variants from the Thermoascus aurantiacus and Penicillium decumbens, suggesting that this protocol is applicable to enzymes from a range of organisms. 
8590660	19951101	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Release of ferulic acid from wheat bran by a ferulic acid esterase (FAE-III) from Aspergillus niger.	Ferulic acid was efficiently released from a wheat bran preparation by a ferulic acid esterase from Aspergillus niger (FAE-III) when incubated together with a Trichoderma viride xylanase (a maximum of 95% total ferulic acid released after 5 h incubation). FAE-III by itself could release ferulic acid but at a level almost 24-fold lower than that obtained in the presence of the xylanase (2 U). Release of ferulic acid was proportional to the FAE-III concentration between 0.1 U and 1.3 U, but the presence of low levels of xylanase (0.1 U) increased the amount of ferulic acid released 6-fold. Total sugar release was not influenced by the action of FAE-III on the wheat bran, but the rate of release of the apparent end-products of xylanase action (xylose and xylobiose) was elevated by the presence of the esterase. The results show that FAE-III and the xylanase act together to break down feruloylated plant cell-wall polysaccharides to give a high yield of ferulic acid. 
10981683	20000912	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Codon optimization of xylanase gene xynB from the thermophilic bacterium Dictyoglomus thermophilum for expression in the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei.	The catalytic domain of the xynB (xylanase) gene from the thermophilic bacterium Dictyoglomus thermophilum was reconstructed by PCR to match the codon preference of Trichoderma reesei. The 0.6-kb DNA fragment encoding the enzyme was first amplified by primer extension with a mixture of eight overlapping oligonucleotides, followed by PCR with outside primers containing restriction enzyme sites for directional cloning into Escherichia coli and T. reesei vectors. The synthetic gene was expressed in both organisms, producing a clearing halo around transformant colonies in plate assay utilizing an overlay of oat spelts xylan. Effective transcription of xyn B in T. reesei was obtained after changing 20 codons. 
15054207	20040401	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of pH on cellulase production of Trichoderma reesei RUT C30.	Currently, the high market price of cellulases prohibits commercialization of the lignocellulosics-to-fuel ethanol process, which utilizes enzymes for saccharification of cellulose. For this reason research aimed at understanding and improving cellulase production is still a hot topic in cellulase research. Trichoderma reesei RUT C30 is known to be one of the best hyper producing cellulolytic fungi, which makes it an ideal test organism for research. New findings could be adopted for industrial strains in the hope of improving enzyme yields, which in turn may result in lower market price of cellulases, thus making fuel ethanol more cost competitive with fossil fuels. Being one of the factors affecting the growth and cellulase production of T. reesei, the pH of cultivation is of major interest. In the present work, numerous pH-controlling strategies were compared both in shake-flask cultures and in a fermentor. Application of various buffer systems in shake-flask experiments was also tested. Although application of buffers resulted in slightly lower cellulase activity than that obtained in non-buffered medium, beta-glucosidase production was increased greatly. 
15888348	20050513	J._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 D013486 	The Phanerochaete chrysosporium secretome: database predictions and initial mass spectrometry peptide identifications in cellulose-grown medium.	The white rot basidiomycete, Phanerochaete chrysosporium, employs an array of extracellular enzymes to completely degrade the major polymers of wood: cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin. Towards the identification of participating enzymes, 268 likely secreted proteins were predicted using SignalP and TargetP algorithms. To assess the reliability of secretome predictions and to evaluate the usefulness of the current database, we performed shotgun LC-MS/MS on cultures grown on standard cellulose-containing medium. A total of 182 unique peptide sequences were matched to 50 specific genes, of which 24 were among the secretome subset. Underscoring the rich genetic diversity of P. chrysosporium, identifications included 32 glycosyl hydrolases. Functionally interconnected enzyme groups were recognized. For example, the multiple endoglucanases and processive exocellobiohydrolases observed quite probably attack cellulose in a synergistic manner. In addition, a hemicellulolytic system included endoxylanases, alpha-galactosidase, acetyl xylan esterase, and alpha-l-arabinofuranosidase. Glucose and cellobiose metabolism likely involves cellobiose dehydrogenase, glucose oxidase, and various inverting glycoside hydrolases, all perhaps enhanced by an epimerase. To evaluate the completeness of the current database, mass spectroscopy analysis was performed on a larger and more inclusive dataset containing all possible ORFs. This allowed identification of a previously undetected hypothetical protein and a putative acid phosphatase. The expression of several genes was supported by RT-PCR amplification of their cDNAs. 
21764911	20110719	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	The Candida albicans GAP gene family encodes permeases involved in general and specific amino acid uptake and sensing.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae general amino acid permease Gap1 (ScGap1) not only mediates the uptake of most amino acids but also functions as a receptor for the activation of protein kinase A (PKA). Fungal pathogens can colonize different niches in the host, each containing various levels of different amino acids and sugars. The Candida albicans genome contains six genes homologous to the S. cerevisiae GAP1. The expression of these six genes in S. cerevisiae showed that the products of all six C. albicans genes differ in their transport capacities. C. albicans Gap2 (CaGap2) is the true orthologue of ScGap1 as it transports all tested amino acids. The other CaGap proteins have narrower substrate specificities though CaGap1 and CaGap6 transport several structurally unrelated amino acids. CaGap1, CaGap2, and CaGap6 also function as sensors. Upon detecting some amino acids, e.g., methionine, they are involved in a rapid activation of trehalase, a downstream target of PKA. Our data show that CaGAP genes can be functionally expressed in S. cerevisiae and that CaGap permeases communicate to the intracellular signal transduction pathway similarly to ScGap1. 
22074954	20111115	Peptides	D016428 D013485 	Molecular determinants of the interaction between human high molecular weight kininogen and Candida albicans cell wall: Identification of kininogen-binding proteins on fungal cell wall and mapping the cell wall-binding regions on kininogen molecule.	An excessive production of vasoactive and proinflammatory bradykinin-related peptides, the kinins, is often involved in the human host defense against microbial infections. Recent studies have shown that a major fungal pathogen to humans, Candida albicans, can bind the proteinaceous kinin precursor, the high molecular weight kininogen (HK) and trigger the kinin-forming cascade on the cell surface. In this work, we preliminarily characterized a molecular mechanism underlying the HK adhesion to the fungal surface by (i) identification of major kininogen-binding constituents on the candidial cell wall and (ii) mapping the cell wall-binding regions on HK molecule. A major fraction of total fungal kininogen-binding capacity was assigned to β-1,3-glucanase-extractable cell wall proteins (CWP). By adsorption of CWP on HK-coupled agarose gel and mass spectrometric analysis of the eluted material, major putative HK receptors were identified, including Als3 adhesin and three glycolytic enzymes, i.e., enolase 1, phosphoglycerate mutase 1 and triosephosphate isomerase 1. Using monoclonal antibodies directed against selected parts of HK molecule and synthetic peptides with sequences matching selected HK fragments, we assigned the major fungal cell wall-binding ability to a short stretch of amino acids in the C-terminal part of domain 3 and a large continuous region involving the C-terminal part of domain 5 and N-terminal part of domain 6 (residues 479-564). The latter characteristics of HK binding to C. albicans surface differ from those reported for bacteria and host cells. 
22186222	20111222	Curr._Opin._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D016454 	Harnessing glycosylation to improve cellulase activity.	Cellulases and hemicellulases are responsible for the turnover of plant cell wall polysaccharides in the biosphere, and thus form the foundation of enzyme engineering efforts in biofuels research. Many of these carbohydrate-active enzymes from filamentous fungi contain both N-linked and O-linked glycosylation, the extent and heterogeneity of which depends on growth conditions, expression host, and the presence of glycan trimming enzymes in the secretome, all of which in turn impact enzyme activity. As the roles of glycosylation in enzyme function have not been fully elucidated, here we discuss the potential roles of glycosylation on glycoside hydrolase enzyme structure and function after secretion. We posit that glycosylation, instead of hindering cellulase engineering, can be used as an additional tool to enhance enzyme activity, given deeper understanding of its molecular-level role in biomass deconstruction. 
1899089	19910125	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Biochemical and molecular characterization of three barley seed proteins with antifungal properties.	We have purified three proteins from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seeds which synergistically inhibit the growth of fungi measured in a microtiter well assay. The proteins are a 26-kDa chitinase, a 30-kDa ribosome-inactivating protein, and a 32-kDa (1-3)-beta-glucanase. Full-length cDNAs encoding them were isolated and sequenced to determine the complete primary structures of the proteins. Northern hybridizations with the cDNAs as probes showed that the corresponding mRNAs accumulate differentially during seed development and germination. Chitinase mRNA accumulates to high levels in aleurone cells during late seed development and early germination, while high levels of mRNA encoding the ribosome-inactivating protein accumulate only in the starchy endosperm during late seed development. The glucanase mRNA accumulates to low levels during seed development and to higher levels in aleurone and seedling tissues during germination. Southern hybridizations showed that the three proteins are encoded by small families of three to eight genes. Their biological roles and potential use in genetic engineering studies are discussed. 
16038608	20050726	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 	New effective method for analysis of the component composition of enzyme complexes from Trichoderma reesei.	A method for analysis of the component composition of multienzyme complexes secreted by the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei was developed. The method is based on chromatofocusing followed by further identification of protein fractions according to their substrate specificity and molecular characteristics of the proteins. The method allows identifying practically all known cellulases and hemicellulases of T. reesei: endoglucanase I (EG I), EG II, EG III, cellobiohydrolase I (CBH I), CBH II, xylanase I (XYL I), XYL II, beta-xylosidase, alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase, acetyl xylan esterase, mannanase, alpha-galactosidase, xyloglucanase, polygalacturonase, and exo-beta-1,3-glucosidase. The component composition of several laboratory and commercial T. reesei preparations was studied and the content of the individual enzymes in these preparations was quantified. The influence of fermentation conditions on the component composition of secreted enzyme complexes was revealed. The characteristic features of enzyme preparations obtained in "cellulase" and "xylanase" fermentation conditions are shown. 
23152805	20121116	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Ras GTPases modulate morphogenesis, sporulation and cellulase gene expression in the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma reesei.	The model cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma reesei (teleomorph Hypocrea jecorina) is capable of responding to environmental cues to compete for nutrients in its natural saprophytic habitat despite its genome encodes fewer degradative enzymes. Efficient signalling pathways in perception and interpretation of environmental signals are indispensable in this process. Ras GTPases represent a kind of critical signal proteins involved in signal transduction and regulation of gene expression. In T. reesei the genome contains two Ras subfamily small GTPases TrRas1 and TrRas2 homologous to Ras1 and Ras2 from S. cerevisiae, but their functions remain unknown. Here, we have investigated the roles of GTPases TrRas1 and TrRas2 during fungal morphogenesis and cellulase gene expression. We show that both TrRas1 and TrRas2 play important roles in some cellular processes such as polarized apical growth, hyphal branch formation, sporulation and cAMP level adjustment, while TrRas1 is more dominant in these processes. Strikingly, we find that TrRas2 is involved in modulation of cellulase gene expression. Deletion of TrRas2 results in considerably decreased transcription of cellulolytic genes upon growth on cellulose. Although the strain carrying a constitutively activated TrRas2(G16V) allele exhibits increased cellulase gene transcription, the cbh1 and cbh2 expression in this mutant still strictly depends on cellulose, indicating TrRas2 does not directly mediate the transmission of the cellulose signal. In addition, our data suggest that the effect of TrRas2 on cellulase gene is exerted through regulation of transcript abundance of cellulase transcription factors such as Xyr1, but the influence is independent of cAMP signalling pathway. Together, these findings elucidate the functions for Ras signalling of T. reesei in cellular morphogenesis, especially in cellulase gene expression, which contribute to deciphering the powerful competitive ability of plant cell wall degrading fungi in nature. 
23448507	20130302	New_Phytol.	D016428 D013485 	Detoxification of α-tomatine by Cladosporium fulvum is required for full virulence on tomato.	· α-Tomatine is an antifungal glycoalkaloid that provides basal defense to tomato (Solanum lycopersicum). However, tomato pathogens overcome this basal defense barrier by the secretion of tomatinases that degrade α-tomatine into the less fungitoxic compounds β-tomatine and tomatidine. Although pathogenic on tomato, it has been reported that the biotrophic fungus Cladosporium fulvum is unable to detoxify α-tomatine. · Here, we present a functional analysis of the glycosyl hydrolase (GH10), CfTom1, which is orthologous to fungal tomatinases. · We show that C. fulvum hydrolyzes α-tomatine into tomatidine in vitro and during the infection of tomato, which is fully attributed to the activity of CfTom1, as shown by the heterologous expression of this enzyme in tomato. Accordingly, ∆cftom1 mutants of C. fulvum are more sensitive to α-tomatine and are less virulent than the wild-type fungus on tomato. · Although α-tomatine is thought to be localized in the vacuole, we show that it is also present in the apoplast, where it is hydrolyzed by CfTom1 on infection. The accumulation of tomatidine during infection appears to be toxic to tomato cells and does not suppress defense responses, as suggested previously. Altogether, our results show that CfTom1 is responsible for the detoxification of α-tomatine by C. fulvum, and is required for full virulence of this fungus on tomato. 
16600593	20060408	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of multiple xylanolytic and cellulolytic enzymes by thermophilic fungus Myceliophthora sp. IMI 387099.	This study reports the production of xylanolytic and cellulolytic enzymes by a thermophilic fungal isolate Myceliophthora sp. using a cheap medium containing rice straw and chemically defined basal medium under solid-state culture. A combination of one factor at a time approach followed by response surface methodology using Box-Behnken design of experiments resulted in 2.5, 1.25, 1.28 and 4.23 fold increase in xylanase, endoglucanase, beta-glucosidase and FPase activity, respectively. The zymograms developed against IEF gels showed that multiple isoforms of xylanase (5), endoglucanase (4) and beta-glucosidase (2) were produced under optimized culture conditions. Moreover, thiol containing serine proteases produced during the growth of the culture had no role in the post-translational modification of these xylanases. 
417727	19780401	Biochem._J.	D016428 	The cellulase of Trichoderma koningii. Purification and properties of some endoglucanase components with special reference to their action on cellulose when acting alone and in synergism with the cellobiohydrolase.	1. Four principal endoglucanase components of Trichoderma koningii cellulase were separated and purified by gel filtration on Sephadex G-75, ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE- and sulphoethyl-Sephadex and isoelectric focusing. 2. All four endoglucanases hydrolysed CM-cellulose, H3PO4-swollen cellulose, cellotetraose and cellopentaose, but differed in the rate and mode of attack. 3. Attack on cotton fibre by the endoglucanases was minimal, but resulted in changes that were manifested by an increased capacity for the uptake of alkali, and a decrease in tensile strength. 4. All four endoglucanases acted synergistically with the exoglucanase [cellobiohydrolase; Wood & McCrae (1972) Biochem. J. 128, 1183-1192] of T. koningii during the early stages of the breakdown of cotton fibre, but only two could produce extensive solubilization of cotton cellulose when acting in admixture with the exoglucanase component. 5. The mode of action of the enzymes is discussed in relation to these synergistic effects. It is suggested that the results are compatible with the interpretation that the 'crystalline' areas of cotton cellulose are hydrolysed only by those endoglucanases capable of forming of forming an enzyme-enzyme complex with the cellobiohydrolase on the surface of the cellulose chains. 
3283123	19880505	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Prepro-alpha-factor has a cleavable signal sequence.	MAT alpha Saccharomyces cerevisiae secrete a small peptide mating pheromone termed alpha-factor. Its precursor, prepro-alpha-factor, is translocated into the endoplasmic reticulum and glycosylated at three sites. The glycosylated form is the major product in a yeast in vitro translation/translocation system. However, there is another translocated, nonglycosylated product that contains a previously unidentified modification. Contrary to previous results suggesting that the signal sequence of prepro-alpha-factor is not cleaved, amino-terminal radiosequencing has identified this product as prepro-alpha-factor without its signal sequence, that is, pro-alpha-factor. The translocated, glycosylated proteins are also processed by signal peptidase. Moreover, we have found that both purified eukaryotic and prokaryotic signal peptidase can process prepro-alpha-factor. Experiments using a yeast secretory mutant (sec 18) blocked in transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi indicate that the protein is also cleaved in vivo. Finally, characterization of the Asn-linked oligosaccharide present on pro-alpha-factor in the yeast in vitro system by use of specific glucosidase and mannosidase inhibitors indicates that they have had the three terminal glucoses and probably one mannose removed. Therefore they most likely consist of Man8GlcNAc2 structures, identical to those found in the endoplasmic reticulum in vivo. 
15459652	20041002	J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of alpha-glucosidase inhibitor from the fungus Ganoderma lucidum.	An alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, SKG-3, was isolated from the fruiting bodies of Ganoderma lucidum and its physico-chemical properties were characterized. It was a highly specific and effective reversible inhibitor of alpha-glucosidase. It showed very potent inhibitory activity against alpha-glucosidase with an IC50 value of 4.6 micro g/ml, but no activity for any other glycosidases tested. Enzyme activity could be recovered upon dialysis, thus providing evidence for the reversibility of the inhibition. A Lineweaver-Burk plot indicated that the SKG-3 inhibition of alpha-glucosidase was competitive. 
17087475	20061108	Plant_Cell_Environ.	D016428 D013485 	White lupin has developed a complex strategy to limit microbial degradation of secreted citrate required for phosphate acquisition.	White lupins (Lupinus albus L.) respond to phosphate deficiency by producing special root structures called cluster roots. These cluster roots secrete large amounts of carboxylates into the rhizosphere, mostly citrate and malate, which act as phosphate solubilizers and enable the plant to grow in soils with sparingly available phosphate. The success and efficiency of such a P-acquisition strategy strongly depends on the persistence and stability of the carboxylates in the soil, a parameter that is influenced to a large extent by biodegradation through rhizosphere bacteria and fungi. In this study, we show that white lupin roots use several mechanisms to reduce microbial growth. The abundance of bacteria associated with cluster roots was decreased at the mature state of the cluster roots, where a burst of organic acid excretion and a drastic pH decrease is observed. Excretion of phenolic compounds, mainly isoflavonoids, induced fungal sporulation, indicating that vegetative growth, and thus potential citrate consumption, is reduced. In addition, the activity of two antifungal cell wall-degrading enzymes, chitinase and glucanase, were highest at the stage preceding the citrate excretion. Therefore, our results suggest that white lupin has developed a complex strategy to reduce microbial degradation of the phosphate-solubilizing agents. 
23011949	20120927	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Present and potential applications of cellulases in agriculture, biotechnology, and bioenergy.	Cellulase (CEL) presently constitutes a major group of industrial enzyme based on its diverse ranges of utilization. Apart from such current and well-established applications-as in cotton processing, paper recycling, detergent formulation, juice extraction, and animal feed additives-their uses in agricultural biotechnology and bioenergy have been exploited. Supplementation of CELs to accelerate decomposition of plant residues in soil results in improved soil fertility. So far, applying CELs/antagonistic cellulolytic fungi to crops has shown to promote plant growth performance, including enhanced seed germination and protective effects. Their actions are believed mainly to trigger plant defense mechanisms and/or to act as biocontrol agents that mediate disease suppression. However, the exact interaction between the enzymes/fungi and plants has not been clearly elucidated. Under mild conditions, removal of plant cell wall polysaccharides by CELs for protoplast preparation results in reduced protoplast damage and increased viability and yields. CELs have recently shown great potential in enzyme aid extraction of bioactive compounds from plant materials before selective extraction through enhancing release of target molecules, especially those associated with the wall matrix. To date, attempts have been made to formulate CEL preparation for cellulosic-based bioethanol production. The high cost of CELs has created a bottleneck, resulting in an uneconomic production process. The utilization of low-cost carbohydrates, strain improvement, and gene manipulations has been alternatively aimed at reducing the cost of CEL production. In this review, we focus on and discuss current knowledge of CELs and their applications in agriculture, biotechnology, and bioenergy. 
18310304	20080304	Glycobiology	D016428 	A new type of plant chitinase containing LysM domains from a fern (Pteris ryukyuensis): roles of LysM domains in chitin binding and antifungal activity.	Chitinase-A (PrChi-A), of molecular mass 42 kDa, was purified from the leaves of a fern (P. ryukyuensis) using several column chromatographies. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of PrChi-A was similar to the lysin motif (LysM). A cDNA encoding PrChi-A was cloned by rapid amplification of cDNA ends and polymerase chain reaction. It consisted of 1459 nucleotides and encoded an open-reading frame of 423-amino-acid residues. The deduced amino acid sequence indicated that PrChi-A is composed of two N-terminal LysM domains and a C-terminal catalytic domain, belonging to the group of plant class IIIb chitinases, linked by proline, serine, and threonine-rich regions. Wild-type PrChi-A had chitin-binding and antifungal activities, but a mutant without LysM domains had lost both activities. These results suggest that the LysM domains contribute significantly to the antifungal activity of PrChi-A through their binding activity to chitin in the cell wall of fungi. This is the first report of the presence in plants of a family-18 chitinase containing LysM domains. 
21726085	20110706	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Potential fungal inhibition by immobilized hydrolytic enzymes from Trichoderma asperellum.	The use of cell wall degrading enzymes from Trichoderma asperellum immobilized on biodegradable support is an alternative for food packaging. In this study, hydrolytic enzymes produced by T. asperellum were tested as a fungal growth inhibitor, in free form or immobilized on a biodegradable film composed of cassava starch and poly(butylene adipate-co-terephtalate) (PBAT). The inhibitory activity was tested against Aspergillus niger , Penicillium sp., and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum , microorganisms that frequently degrade food packaging. The use of chitin as carbon source in liquid medium induced T. asperellun to produce N-acetylglucosaminidase, β-1,3-glucanase, chitinase, and protease. The presence of T. asperellun cell wall degradating enzymes (T-CWD) immobilized by adsorption or covalent attachment resulted in effective inhibition of fungal growth. The enzymatic activity of T-CWD was stronger on S. sclerotiorum than on the Aspergillus or Penicillum isolates tested. These results suggest that T-CWD can be used in a free or immobilized form to suppress fungi that degrade food packaging. 
6327611	19840501	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Trehalase activity and cyclic AMP content during early development of Mucor rouxii spores.	Incubation of Mucor rouxii sporangiospores in complex medium under aerobic conditions resulted in a transient 20-fold increase in trehalase activity. Maximum activity was reached after 15 min. Simultaneously, the cyclic AMP (cAMP) content increased approximately eightfold, reaching a maximum within 10 min. Increases in trehalase activity and cAMP content were also observed under anaerobic conditions (CO2). The extent of trehalase activation and the changes in cAMP content, during both aerobic and anaerobic incubation, varied with the medium used. Trehalase was activated in vitro by a cAMP- and ATP-dependent process. An even faster activation was obtained when cAMP was replaced by the catalytic subunit of beef heart protein kinase. The coincidence of, and the correlation between, increased cAMP contents and trehalase activities support the involvement of a cAMP-dependent phosphorylation in the in vivo regulation of trehalase activity. 
308842	19780901	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 	Structural examination of antitumour, water-soluble glucans from Grifora umbellata by use of four types of glucanase.	Antitumour glucans (GU) from the fungus Grifora umbellata have been subjected to periodate oxidation, Smith degradation, methylation analysis, and treatment with endo-(1 leads to 6)-beta-D-, endo-(1 leads to 3)-beta-D-, and exo-(1 leads to 3)-beta-D-glucanases, and alpha-amylase; the following structural features were revealed. GU-2 contains a backbone involving (1 leads to 6)-beta- and () leads to 3)-beta linkages, and two kinds of branches involving (1 leads to 6)-beta and (1 leads to 4)-alpha linkages. GU-3 has a (1 leads to 3)-beta-linked backbone and branches involving (1 leads to 6)-beta linkages or (1 leads to 4)-alpha and (1 leads to 6)-beta linkages. GU-4 also contains a (1 leads to 3) beta-D-glucan backbone and a small number of (1 leads to 6)-beta-linked branches. Probable structural units of these glucans are proposed. 
10931947	20000810	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013486 	Requirement for either a host- or pectin-induced pectate lyase for infection of Pisum sativum by Nectria hematococca.	Fungal pathogens usually have multiple genes that encode extracellular hydrolytic enzymes that may degrade the physical barriers in their hosts during the invasion process. Nectria hematococca, a plant pathogen, has two inducible pectate lyase (PL) genes (pel) encoding PL that can help degrade the carbohydrate barrier in the host. pelA is induced by pectin, whereas pelD is induced only in planta. We show that the disruption of either the pelA or pelD genes alone causes no detectable decrease in virulence. Disruption of both pelA and pelD drastically reduces virulence. Complementation of the double disruptant with pelD gene, or supplementation of the infection droplets of the double disruptant with either purified enzyme, PLA, or PLD, caused a recovery in virulence. These results show that PL is a virulence factor. Thus, we demonstrate that disruption of all functionally redundant genes is required to demonstrate the role of host barrier-degrading enzymes in pathogenesis and that dismissal of the role of such enzymes based on the effects of single-gene disruption may be premature. 
15239699	20040709	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	pH control of the production of recombinant glucose oxidase in Aspergillus nidulans.	Recombinant Aspergillus nidulans sVAL040, capable of synthesizing and secreting glucose oxidase derived from Aspergillus niger was used to study the influence of pH and carbon source on enzyme production. Glucose oxidase gene (goxC) was expressed under transcriptional regulation by using the promoter of A. nidulans xlnB gene (encoding an acidic xylanase). A maximum specific glucose oxidase activity of approx. 10 U mg(-1) protein and a maximum volumetric productivity of 29.9 U l(-1) h(-1) were obtained at pH 5.5, after 80 h of growth by using xylose as inducer. Enzyme volumetric productivity increased when xylans were used instead of xylose; however, specific glucose oxidase activity did not differ significantly. Specific GOX activity obtained at pH 5.5 are two to three times more than those previously described for goxC multicopy transformants of A. nidulans. Xylans were a more powerful inducer than xylose although fungal growth was lower when the polymers were used. The obtained results by using xlnB promoter in A. nidulans could be useful in improving heterologous enzyme production by using genetic- and process-engineering strategies. 
8385582	19930101	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Mutations in the yeast fructose 1,6-biphosphatase structural gene affect expression of a fructose 1,6-biphosphatase-endoglucanase A hybrid protein.	Mutations in the yeast fructose 1,6 biphosphatase structural gene severely reduced expression of a fructose 1,6 biphosphatase-endoglucanase A hybrid protein introduced into yeast on multicopy or centromeric vectors. Upon glucose limitation the mutant yeasts were incapable of de-repressing endoglucanase A synthesis. 
9472082	19980404	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Targeted differential display of abundantly expressed sequences from the basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium which contain regions coding for fungal cellulose-binding domains.	Cellulose-binding domains (CBDs) are present in the majority of fungal cellulases studied to-date. This work describes the use of targeted differential display, employing degenerate primers designed to anneal to variants of a region conserved in fungal CBDs, each in combination with an oligo-dT primer, to PCR-amplify cDNA sequences containing regions coding for such domains from Phanerochaete chrysosporium. After growth on either Avicel or carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC), five distinct, abundantly expressed cDNA sequences were obtained. Two of these originated from transcripts of the previously characterised cbhI.1 and cbhI.2 genes, whereas three were from novel genes. One of the latter was isolated only after growth on CMC. No such sequences were obtained after growth on xylan, suggesting that the expression of sequences containing such regions is down-regulated on this substrate. The use of targeted differential display both for isolating novel sequences and for studying the expression of known genes within a family is discussed. 
22169180	20111216	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Transglycosylation specificity of Acremonium sp. α-rhamnosyl-β-glucosidase and its application to the synthesis of the new fluorogenic substrate 4-methylumbelliferyl-rutinoside.	Transglycosylation potential of the fungal diglycosidase α-rhamnosyl-β-glucosidase was explored. The biocatalyst was shown to have broad acceptor specificity toward aliphatic and aromatic alcohols. This feature allowed the synthesis of the diglycoconjugated fluorogenic substrate 4-methylumbelliferyl-rutinoside. The synthesis was performed in one step from the corresponding aglycone, 4-methylumbelliferone, and hesperidin as rutinose donor. 4-Methylumbelliferyl-rutinoside was produced in an agitated reactor using the immobilized biocatalyst with a 16% yield regarding the sugar acceptor. The compound was purified by solvent extraction and silica gel chromatography. MALDI-TOF/TOF data recorded for the [M+Na](+) ions correlated with the theoretical monoisotopic mass (calcd [M+Na](+): 507.44 m/z; obs. [M+Na](+): 507.465 m/z). 4-Methylumbelliferyl-rutinoside differs from 4-methylumbelliferyl-glucoside in the rhamnosyl substitution at the C-6 of glucose, and this property brings about the possibility to explore in nature the occurrence of endo-β-glucosidases by zymographic analysis. 
440399	19790228	Mycopathologia	D016428 	Isolation and partial characterization of immunologically reactive fractions from chitinase digested cell wall of Trichophyton mentagrophytes.	Cell wall preparations of Trichophyton mentagrophytes were digested with chitinase following which various fractions were isolated by ultrafiltration and Sephadex gel filtration. All fractions isolated contained both polysaccharide and peptide material. A correlation was seen between those fractions capable of eliciting immediate and delayed skin reactions in sensitized guinea pigs and those capable of stimulating the in vitro proliferation of lymphocytes taken from sensitized guinea pigs. These immunologically active fractions also developed precipitin lines with antiserum taken from sensitized animals. A low molecular weight fraction was found to be completely reactive immunologically (UM2(a)), and appeared to have a molecular weight in the range of 2,000--4,000 as assessed by ultrafiltration and gel filtration studies. 
16984401	20060921	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 	The Aspergillus fumigatus cellobiohydrolase B (cbhB) promoter is tightly regulated and can be exploited for controlled protein expression and RNAi.	The utility of the Aspergillus fumigatus cellobiohydrolase cbhB promoter for controlled gene expression has been investigated. cbhB message was present at high levels in the presence of carboxymethylcellulose and undetected in the presence of glucose. A reporter construct using the cbhB promoter showed similar behaviour and gave lower message levels than the Aspergillus nidulans alcA promoter under repressing conditions. An RNAi construct driven by the cbhB promoter was used to down-regulate the alb1 gene; transformants showed low alb1 message levels and a loss-of-function phenotype with carboxymethylcellulose, while both wild-type message levels and phenotype were seen with glucose. The cbhB promoter is therefore tightly controlled and can be exploited for the study of A. fumigatus. 
21597184	20110521	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	A highly N-glycosylated chitin deacetylase derived from a novel strain of Mortierella sp. DY-52.	Chitin deacetylase (CDA), the enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of acetamido groups of GlcNAc in chitin, was purified from culture filtrate of the fungus Mortierella sp. DY-52 and characterized. The extracellular enzyme is likely to be a highly N-glycosylated protein with a pI of 4.2-4.8. Its apparent molecular weight was determined to be about 52 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and 67 kDa by size-exclusion chromatography. The enzyme had an optimum pH of 6.0 and an optimum temperature of 60 °C. Enzyme activity was slightly inhibited by 1-10 mM Co(2+) and strongly inhibited by 10 mM Cu(2+). It required at least two GlcNAc residues for catalysis. When (GlcNAc)(6) was used as substrate, K(m) and V(max) were determined to be 1.1 mM and 54.6 µmol min(-1) respectively. 
23452951	20130305	Fungal_Biol	D016428 D013485 	Metarhizium anisopliae chitinase CHIT30 is involved in heat-shock stress and contributes to virulence against Dysdercus peruvianus.	Entomopathogenic fungi are able to produce several chitinases, which serve a variety of biological functions, such as fungal cell wall organization and the degradation of exogenous chitin for nutrition or insect infection processes. In this study, we analyzed the contribution of the CHIT30 chitinase from Metarhizium anisopliae in morphogenetic development and virulence as a model of chitinase function. The analysis of chi3 gene expression revealed transcript accumulation in response to heat-shock stress conditions as well as cultivation in medium supplemented with chitin. Null chi3 mutants were constructed to determine the biological role of CHIT30. No substantial differences in the secreted chitinase activity could be detected between the wild type and the Δchi3 mutant. However, both endochitinase and exochitinase activities were diminished in the mutant strain following heat-shock treatment, suggesting that CHIT30 is involved in heat-shock adaptation. Mutants lacking CHIT30 chitinase showed reduced virulence against the cotton stainer bug Dysdercus peruvianus, indicating that the CHIT30 chitinase plays a role in the infection process of M. anisopliae. 
20035370	20091226	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Chitinolytic and antifungal activity of a Bacillus pumilus chitinase expressed in Arabidopsis.	The Bacillus pumilus SG2 chitinase gene (ChiS) and its truncated form lacking chitin binding (ChBD) and fibronectin type III (FnIII) domains were transformed to Arabidopsis plants and the expression, functionality and antifungal activity of the recombinant proteins were investigated. Results showed that while the two enzyme forms showed almost equal hydrolytic activity toward colloidal chitin, they exhibited a significant difference in antifungal activity. Recombinant ChiS in plant protein extracts displayed a high inhibitory effect on spore germination and radial growth of hyphae in Alternaria brassicicola, Fusarium graminearum and Botrytis cinerea, while the activity of the truncated enzyme was strongly abolished. These findings demonstrate that ChBD and FnIII domains are not necessary for hydrolysis of colloidal chitin but play an important role in hydrolysis of chitin-glucan complex of fungal cell walls. Twenty microgram aliquots of protein extracts from ChiS transgenic lines displayed strong antifungal activity causing up to 80% decrease in fungal spore germination. This is the first report of a Bacillus pumilus chitinase expressed in plant system. 
12223300	20020912	J._Microbiol._Methods	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Biolistic transformation of Trichoderma reesei using the Bio-Rad seven barrels Hepta Adaptor system.	Effective biolistic transformation of intact conidia from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei was achieved using the Bio-Rad Hepta Adaptor system with seven barrels for particle launch. Transformation frequencies of up to 39 colonies per microg of circular DNA and 37 colonies per microg of linear DNA were obtained at an optimal target distance of 3 cm and a helium pressure of 1350 psi. These values are about 3.5- to 6-fold higher than transformant yields reported earlier for T. reesei using the hygromycin phosphotransferase (hph) gene conferring resistance to the antibiotic hygromycin B as a selectable marker in combination with the PDS-1000/He single barrel system. High mitotic stability of the transformants (98-100%) was demonstrated. The Hepta Adaptor device allowing bombardment of seven lots of conidia in a single plate offers clear advantage in terms of transformant numbers over the single barrel system where target cells are restricted to the center of the plate. 
11438761	20010705	Protein_Eng.	D016428 D013485 	New secretory strategies for Kluyveromyces lactis beta-galactosidase.	We examined several strategies for the secretion of Kluyveromyces lactis beta-galactosidase into the culture medium, in order to facilitate the downstream processing and purification of this intracellular enzyme of great industrial interest. We constructed plasmids by fusing the LAC4 gene or engineered variants to the secretion signal of the K.lactis killer toxin or to the secretion signal of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha-factor. With these plasmids we transformed strains of the yeasts K.lactis and S.cerevisiae, respectively and tested beta-galactosidase extracellular activity in different culture media. We achieved partial secretion of beta-galactosidase in the culture medium since the high molecular weight and oligomeric nature of the enzyme, among other factors, preclude full secretion. The percentage of secretion was improved by directed mutagenesis of the N-terminus of the protein. We developed several deletion mutants which helped us to propose structure-function relationships by comparison with the available data on the homologous Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase. The influence of the culture conditions on heterologous beta-galactosidase secretion was also studied. 
23690947	20130522	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Systems analysis of lactose metabolism in Trichoderma reesei identifies a lactose permease that is essential for cellulase induction.	Trichoderma reesei colonizes predecayed wood in nature and metabolizes cellulose and hemicellulose from the plant biomass. The respective enzymes are industrially produced for application in the biofuel and biorefinery industry. However, these enzymes are also induced in the presence of lactose (1,4-0-ß-d-galactopyranosyl-d-glucose), a waste product from cheese manufacture or whey processing industries. In fact, lactose is the only soluble carbon source that induces these enzymes in T. reesei on an industrial level but the reason for this unique phenomenon is not understood. To answer this question, we used systems analysis of the T. reesei transcriptome during utilization of lactose. We found that the respective CAZome encoded all glycosyl hydrolases necessary for cellulose degradation and particularly for the attack of monocotyledon xyloglucan, from which ß-galactosides could be released that may act as the inducers of T. reesei's cellulases and hemicellulases. In addition, lactose also induces a high number of putative transporters of the major facilitator superfamily. Deletion of fourteen of them identified one gene that is essential for lactose utilization and lactose uptake, and for cellulase induction by lactose (but not sophorose) in pregrown mycelia of T. reesei. These data shed new light on the mechanism by which T. reesei metabolizes lactose and offers strategies for its improvement. They also illuminate the key role of ß-D-galactosides in habitat specificity of this fungus. 
9797333	19981031	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Evidence for the interplay between trehalose metabolism and Hsp104 in yeast.	Disruption of the HSP104 gene in a mutant which cannot accumulate trehalose during heat shock treatment caused trehalose accumulation (H. Iwahashi, K. Obuchi, S. Fujii, and Y. Komatsu, Lett. Appl. Microbiol 25:43-47, 1997). This implies that Hsp104 affects trehalose metabolism. Thus, we measured the activities of enzymes involved in trehalose metabolism. The activities of trehalose-synthesizing and -hydrolyzing enzymes are low in the HSP104 disruption mutant during heat shock. This data is correlated with intracellular trehalose and glucose levels observed in the HSP104 disruption mutant. These results suggest that during heat shock, Hsp104 contributes to the simultaneous increase in both accumulation and degradation of trehalose. 
23507038	20130320	Biotechnol._Adv.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Development of highly efficient, low-cost lignocellulolytic enzyme systems in the post-genomic era.	The current high cost of lignocellulolytic enzymes is a major bottleneck in the economic bioconversion of lignocellulosic biomass to fuels and chemicals. Fungal lignocellulolytic enzyme systems are secreted at high levels, making them the most promising starting points for further development of highly efficient lignocellulolytic enzyme systems. In this paper, recent advances in improvement of fungal lignocellulolytic enzyme systems are reviewed, with an emphasis on the achievements made using genomic approaches. A general strategy for lignocellulolytic enzyme system development is proposed, including the improvement of the hydrolysis efficiencies and productivities of current enzyme systems. The applications of genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic analysis methods in examining the composition of native enzyme systems, discovery of novel enzymes and synergistic proteins from natural sources, and understanding of regulatory mechanisms for lignocellulolytic enzyme biosynthesis are summarized. By combining systems biology and synthetic biology tools, engineered fungal strains are expected to produce high levels of optimized lignocellulolytic enzyme systems.  
23298573	20130110	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Characterization and genomic analysis of kraft lignin biodegradation by the beta-proteobacterium Cupriavidus basilensis B-8.	None Lignin materials are abundant and among the most important potential sources for biofuel production. Development of an efficient lignin degradation process has considerable potential for the production of a variety of chemicals, including bioethanol. However, lignin degradation using current methods is inefficient. Given their immense environmental adaptability and biochemical versatility, bacterial could be used as a valuable tool for the rapid degradation of lignin. Kraft lignin (KL) is a polymer by-product of the pulp and paper industry resulting from alkaline sulfide treatment of lignocellulose, and it has been widely used for lignin-related studies. Beta-proteobacterium Cupriavidus basilensis B-8 isolated from erosive bamboo slips displayed substantial KL degradation capability. With initial concentrations of 0.5-6 g L-1, at least 31.3% KL could be degraded in 7 days. The maximum degradation rate was 44.4% at the initial concentration of 2 g L-1. The optimum pH and temperature for KL degradation were 7.0 and 30°C, respectively. Manganese peroxidase (MnP) and laccase (Lac) demonstrated their greatest level of activity, 1685.3 U L-1 and 815.6 U L-1, at the third and fourth days, respectively. Many small molecule intermediates were formed during the process of KL degradation, as determined using GC-MS analysis. In order to perform metabolic reconstruction of lignin degradation in this bacterium, a draft genome sequence for C. basilensis B-8 was generated. Genomic analysis focused on the catabolic potential of this bacterium against several lignin-derived compounds. These analyses together with sequence comparisons predicted the existence of three major metabolic pathways: β-ketoadipate, phenol degradation, and gentisate pathways. These results confirmed the capability of C. basilensis B-8 to promote KL degradation. Whole genomic sequencing and systematic analysis of the C. basilensis B-8 genome identified degradation steps and intermediates from this bacterial-mediated KL degradation method. Our findings provide a theoretical basis for research into the mechanisms of lignin degradation as well as a practical basis for biofuel production using lignin materials. 
23512479	20130321	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Cerato-platanin shows expansin-like activity on cellulosic materials.	Cerato-platanin (CP) is a non-catalytic protein with a double ψβ-barrel fold located in the cell wall of the phytopathogenic fungus Ceratocystis platani. CP is released during growth and induces defence-related responses in plants. CP is also the first member of the "cerato-platanin family" (CPF) (Pfam PF07249). In the CPF, the molecular mechanism of action on plants and above all the biological role in fungal life are little-known aspects. However, an expansin-like function has recently been suggested concerning CP. Expansin-like proteins have the ability to act non-hydrolytically on cellulose. In the present work, the expansin-like activity of CP and Pop1, a CP family member, was investigated. Like expansins, CP and Pop1 were able to weaken filter paper in a concentration-dependent manner and without the production of reducing sugars. A metal-dependent polysaccharide monooxygenase-like activity was excluded. The optimum of activity was pH5.0, 38 °C. CP was also able to cause fragmentation of the crystalline cellulose Avicel and the breakage and defibration of cotton fibres. However, the interaction did not involve a stable bond with the substrates and CP did not significantly enhance the hydrolytic activity of cellulase. On the other hand, CP and Pop1 bound quickly to chitin. We consider CP as a novel one-domain expansin-like protein. We propose a structural role for CP in the fungal cell wall due to the ability to bind chitin, and hypothesize a functional role in the interaction of the fungus with the plant for the weakening activity shown on cellulose. 
3147221	19881201	Genetics	D016428 D013487 	Identification and characterization of mutations affecting sporulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Mutations affecting the synthesis of the sporulation amyloglucosidase were isolated in a homothallic strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, SCMS7-1. Two were found, both of which were deficient in sporulation at 34 degrees. One, SL484, sporulated to 50% normal levels at 30 degrees but less than 5% at 34 degrees or 22 degrees. The other, SL641, failed to sporulate at any temperature. Both mutants were blocked before premeiotic DNA synthesis, and both complemented spo1, spo3, and spo7. Genetic analysis of the mutation in SL484 indicated linkage to TRP5 and placed the gene 10 map units from TRP5 on chromosome VII. A plasmid containing an insert which complements the mutation in SL484 fails to complement SL641. We therefore conclude that these two mutations are in separate genes and we propose to call these genes SPO17 and SPO18. These two genes are (with SPO7, SPO8, and SPO9) among the earliest identified in the sporulation pathway and may interact directly with the positive and negative regulators RME and IME. 
19215727	20090214	Biotechnol._Adv.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Production, characterization and gene cloning of the extracellular enzymes from the marine-derived yeasts and their potential applications.	In this review article, the extracellular enzymes production, their properties and cloning of the genes encoding the enzymes from marine yeasts are overviewed. Several yeast strains which could produce different kinds of extracellular enzymes were selected from the culture collection of marine yeasts available in this laboratory. The strains selected belong to different genera such as Yarrowia, Aureobasidium, Pichia, Metschnikowia and Cryptococcus. The extracellular enzymes include cellulase, alkaline protease, aspartic protease, amylase, inulinase, lipase and phytase, as well as killer toxin. The conditions and media for the enzyme production by the marine yeasts have been optimized and the enzymes have been purified and characterized. Some genes encoding the extracellular enzymes from the marine yeast strains have been cloned, sequenced and expressed. It was found that some properties of the enzymes from the marine yeasts are unique compared to those of the homologous enzymes from terrestrial yeasts and the genes encoding the enzymes in marine yeasts are different from those in terrestrial yeasts. Therefore, it is of very importance to further study the enzymes and their genes from the marine yeasts. This is the first review on the extracellular enzymes and their genes from the marine yeasts. 
10772156	20000420	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 	Physiological aspects of fungi isolated from root nodules of faba bean (Vicia faba L.).	The present study was made to isolate and assess some physiological characteristics of root nodule-colonizing fungi. During this study, 17 fungal species were isolated from root nodule samples taken from faba bean plants (Vicia faba L.) collected from different sites at Assiut area (Egypt). The growth of faba bean plants in pots was significantly promoted by soil inoculation with most fungi. Growth was checked in pots with inocula of Cladosporium cladosporioides, Fusarium moniliforme, F: oxysporium, F solani, Macrophominia phaseolina and Rhizoctonia solani which were added separately. All growth-promoting fungi were capable of producing cellulase, pectin lyase, polygalacturonase, protease, urease, amidase, acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase and arylsulfatase in growth medium supplemented with the corresponding substrates. Four fungal species, Aspergillus awamori, A. flavus, Penicillium chrysogenum and Trichoderma koningii showed the highest rates of enzyme formation. The effect of the addition of six trace elements to the growth media at 30 micromol/ml on enzyme production revealed some dependency on species, enzyme and metal ion. Cd2+, Hg2+ and Zn2+ generally inhibited enzyme activity. Cu(1+), Fe3+ and Al3+ showed a stimulatory effect. Fungicides (afugan and tilt) and herbicides (brominal and fusilade) at 50 ppm generally promoted enzyme activity, but insecticides (kelthane and fenvalerate) caused some inhibition to enzyme activities. Salinization of the growth media with NaCl strongly inhibited the enzymatic activity of all fungi at concentrations between 0.5 and 1.5%. 
10356263	19990605	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 D013485 	Stable high-copy-number integration of Aspergillus oryzae alpha-AMYLASE cDNA in an industrial baker's yeast strain.	The Aspergillus oryzae alpha-amylase cDNA was placed under the control of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae actin promoter (pACT1) and introduced into the ribosomal DNA locus of an industrial baker's yeast strain. To obtain a strain eligible for commercial use, we constructed an integrative cassette lacking bacterial DNA sequences but containing the alpha-amylase cDNA and ribosomal DNA sequences to target the integration to this locus. High-copy-number integrants were obtained including a defective TRP1d promoter in the integrative cassette. We selected one transformant, Rib-AMY (CECT10872), in which the multi-integrated sequences were stable even after 200 generations of growth in nonselective medium. This transformant also expressed and secreted high levels of alpha-amylase. Bread made with this strain had a higher volume, lower density, and softer crumbs than bread made with a control strain. The Rib-AMY transformant also was useful in retarding bread firming. This new strain fulfills all the requirements for commercial utilization and should reduce or eliminate the requirement for addition of exogenous alpha-amylase to the flour, reducing allergenic work-related symptoms due to this enzyme. 
11500217	20010814	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Application of microassays for investigation of cellulase abrasive activity and backstaining.	Model microassays were used for testing the denim-washing performance and indigo backstaining for Trichoderma reesei and Chrysosporium lucknowense commercial cellulase preparations on a 'test-tube scale'. C. lucknowense preparation demonstrated a higher potential in the denim biostoning process. The performance of four purified cellulases (two endoglucanases and two cellobiohydrolases) from C. lucknowense on cotton textiles was assayed, and the key enzyme (endoglucanase with a molecular weight of 25 kDa) responsible for high abrasion effects on denim fabrics was found. 
7510794	19930101	J._Enzym._Inhib.	D016428 D013485 	Inhibition of beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase by glycon-related analogues of the substrate.	Inhibition studies on beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase (EC 3.2.1.30) of widely differing origins (animal, plant, fungus) were carried out with N-acetylglucosaminono-1,5-lactone (1), N-acetylglucosaminono-1,5-lactam (2), 1,5-imino-N-acetylglucosaminitol (3), and N-acetylglucosaminono-1,5-lactone oxime (4). The inhibition was competitive in all cases, and Ki values were generally in the range of 0.15-2 microM, except for the fungal enzyme (5-20 microM). To assess the kinetics of enzyme-inhibitor complex formation, continuous enzyme activity monitoring was done with 3,4-dinitrophenyl-beta-N-acetylglucosaminide as the substrate. A slow approach to the binding-equilibrium in the time scale of minutes could not be observed with any of the inhibitors tested (1-4). The results are evaluated as to the bearing of the enzyme source on best performance of the test compounds, the sub-type of inhibition mechanism is discussed, and suggestions are made for further analogue syntheses as well as potential applications of 1-4 (particularly the O-phenylcarbamoyl derivative of the latter) in biological and medical research. 
15975908	20050625	Mol._Biol._Cell	D016428 D013485 	Yeast aconitase in two locations and two metabolic pathways: seeing small amounts is believing.	The distribution of identical enzymatic activities between different subcellular compartments is a fundamental process of living cells. At present, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae aconitase enzyme has been detected only in mitochondria, where it functions in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and is considered a mitochondrial matrix marker. We developed two strategies for physical and functional detection of aconitase in the yeast cytosol: 1) we fused the alpha peptide of the beta-galactosidase enzyme to aconitase and observed alpha complementation in the cytosol; and 2) we created an ACO1-URA3 hybrid gene, which allowed isolation of strains in which the hybrid protein is exclusively targeted to mitochondria. These strains display a specific phenotype consistent with glyoxylate shunt elimination. Together, our data indicate that yeast aconitase isoenzymes distribute between two distinct subcellular compartments and participate in two separate metabolic pathways; the glyoxylate shunt in the cytosol and the TCA cycle in mitochondria. We maintain that such dual distribution phenomena have a wider occurrence than recorded currently, the reason being that in certain cases there is a small fraction of one of the isoenzymes, in one of the locations, making its detection very difficult. We term this phenomenon of highly uneven isoenzyme distribution "eclipsed distribution." 
8625428	19960401	Curr._Genet.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Expression of an Erwinia pectate lyase in three species of Aspergillus.	Transgenic filamentous fungi of the species Aspergillus niger, A. nidulans and A. awamori expressing and secreting Erwinia carotovora subsp. atroseptica pectate lyase 3 (PL3) were generated. Correct processing of the pre-enzyme was achieved using the A. niger pectin lyase A (PEL A) signal peptide. With the prepro-peptide of A. niger polygalacturonase II, secreted enzymes still possessed the 6- aa pro-sequence, indicating the importance of the conformation of the precursor protein for correct cleavage of the signal sequence. PL3 expression was markedly increased in media optimized for limited protease activity, and reached 0.4, 0.8 and 2.0 mg/l for expression in A. niger, A. awamori and A. nidulans, respectively. Glycans attached to the PL3 enzymes exhibited species-specific differences, and an increase of molecular mass coincided with reduced specific activities of the enzymes. 
3265987	19880101	Nahrung	D016428 	Amino-acid composition and mycology of Sekete, a fermented product from Zea mays L.	The local procedure for preparing Sekete is described. The isolated microfungi, Aspergillus flavus Link., Cladosporium cladosporioides (Fres.) de Vries, and Alternaria tenuissima (Kunze) Wiltshire, were examined for various aspects of their physiology and biochemistry. Sekete is rich in important amino acids as alanine, leucine, tyrosine, and lysine, though proline and arginine are lacking. All the mycoflora isolated exhibited good secretion of extracellular enzymes. Pullulan, starch, soyabean meal, and corn steep liquor encouraged alpha-amylase production. 
12025930	20020525	Chronobiol._Int.	D016428 	Ultradian rhythm of trehalose levels coupled to heat resistance in continuous cultures of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Heat resistance appears to cycle in concert with energy metabolism in continuous culture of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To study the mechanism of this oscillation, the authors first examined if heat shock proteins (Hsps) are involved. Neither the protein levels of major Hsps nor the expression of the beta-galactosidase gene as a reporter under the control of the promoter carrying heat-shock element oscillated during the metabolic oscillation. The level of trehalose in yeast cycled with the same periodicity, as did energy metabolism. This oscillation was not found in a GTS1-deleted mutant that also did not show cyclic changes in heat resistance. These results suggest that heat resistance oscillation is induced by fluctuations in trehalose level and not by an oscillatory expression of Hsps. The increase in trehalose began at the start of the respiro-fermentative phase and the decrease began after the elevation of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) level. The authors hypothesize that the synthesis of trehalose parallels the activation of the glycolytic pathway and that trehalose is degraded by trehalase activated by cAMP coupled with the metabolic oscillation in the continuous culture of yeast. 
15160609	20040527	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Involvement of secondary metabolites and extracellular lytic enzymes produced by Pseudomonas fluorescens in inhibition of Rhizoctonia solani, the rice sheath blight pathogen.	Fourteen strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens isolated from rhizosphere soil of rice were tested for their antagonistic effect towards Rhizoctonia solani, the rice sheath blight fungus. Among them, PfMDU2 was the most effective in inhibiting mycelial growth of R. solani in vitro. Production of chitinase, beta-1,3-glucanase, siderophores, salicylic acid (SA) and hydrogen cyanide (HCN) by P. fluorescens strains was evaluated. The highest beta-1,3-glucanase activity, siderophore production, SA production and HCN production were recorded with PfMDU2. A significant relationship between the antagonistic potential of P. fluorescens against R. solani and its level of beta-1,3-glucanase, SA and HCN was observed. 
19884778	20091104	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of endo-beta-1,4 mannanase from Aspergillus niger gr for application in food processing industry.	A thermostable extracellular beta-mannanase from the culture supernatant of a fungus Aspergillus niger gr was purified to homogeneity. SDS-PAGE of the purified enzyme showed a single protein band of molecular mass 66 kDa. The beta- mannanase exhibited optimum catalytic activity at pH 5.5 and 55 degrees C. It was thermostable at 55 degrees C, and retained 50% activity after 6 h at 55 degrees C. The enzyme was stable at a pH range of 3.0 to 7.0. The metal ions Hg(2+), Cu(2+), and Ag(2+) inhibited complete enzyme activity. The inhibitors tested, EDTA, PMSF, and 1,10-phenanthroline, did not inhibit the enzyme activity. N-Bromosuccinimide completely inhibited enzyme activity. The relative substrate specificity of enzyme towards the various mannans is in the order of locust bean gum>guar gum>copra mannan, with K(m) of 0.11, 0.28, and 0.33 mg/ml, respectively. Since the enzyme is active over a wide range of pH and temperature, it could find potential use in the food-processing industry. 
1996316	19910215	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	An Escherichia coli tyrosine transfer RNA is a leucine-specific transfer RNA in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	While the Escherichia coli Su-3 (tyrT) tyrosine tRNA suppressor inserts only tyrosine at amber codons in E. coli, we show here that in Saccharomyces cerevisiae this tRNA inserts leucine and no significant amounts of any other amino acid. Thus, the E. coli tyrosine tRNA is functionally a leucine tRNA in yeast cytoplasm. This functional identity may correlate with a structural relationship between the E. coli tyrosine and yeast leucine tRNAs, which are both members of the uncommon type II class of tRNA structures. The results raise the possibility that in evolution a tRNA may be more closely related to a tRNA of different acceptor specificity, but of the same type class, than to one with the same amino acid specificity, but of a different type class. 
9281862	19970801	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Lipases in autolysed cultures of filamentous fungi.	Fifty-one fungi from different genera and strains were checked in plate to determine lipase activity in protein precipitates from their autolysed cultures. Each of them was then analysed at 3.5, 6.5 and 9.2 pH units and, as a consequence, basic lipases with high activity at 9.2 pH were found after 1 h of incubation. Only 25% of the studied fungi showed this lipase activity, among them the best producers were fungi from genus Fusarium (47% of fungi had lipase activity). In addition to lipase activity, Fusaria showed a low hydrolytic activity on cutin and suberin. The genus Aspergillus produced lipase and cutinase activity to a similar extent. Aspergillus nidulans 2544 also showed suberinase activity in a considerable amount. Penicillium species had very low activities. Other species and strains from genus Trichoderma, order Mucorales and class Basidiomycetes, did not show lipase activity in their degradative processes. 
22103405	20111123	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Initial- and processive-cut products reveal cellobiohydrolase rate limitations and the role of companion enzymes.	Efforts to improve the activity of cellulases, which catalyze the hydrolysis of insoluble cellulose, have been hindered by uncertainty surrounding the mechanistic origins of rate-limiting phenomena and by an incomplete understanding of complementary enzyme function. In particular, direct kinetic measurements of individual steps occurring after enzymes adsorb to the cellulose surface have proven to be experimentally elusive. This work describes an experimental and analytical approach, derived from a detailed mechanistic model of cellobiohydrolase action, for determining rates of initial- and processive-cut product generation by Trichoderma longibrachiatum cellobiohydrolase I (TlCel7A) as it catalyzes the hydrolysis of bacterial microcrystalline cellulose (BMCC) alone and in the presence of Talaromyces emersonii endoglucanase II (TemGH5). This analysis revealed that the rate of TlCel7A-catalyzed hydrolysis of crystalline cellulose is limited by the rate of enzyme complexation with glycan chains, which is shown to be equivalent to the rate of initial-cut product generation. This rate is enhanced in the presence of endoglucanase enzymes. The results confirm recent reports about the role of morphological obstacles in enzyme processivity and also provide the first direct evidence that processive length may be increased by the presence of companion enzymes, including small amounts of TemGH5. The findings of this work indicate that efforts to improve cellobiohydrolase activity should focus on enhancing the enzyme's ability to complex with cellulose chains, and the analysis employed provides a new technique for investigating the mechanism by which companion enzymes influence cellobiohydrolase activity. 
16933613	20060829	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 	[The dynamics of microorganism populations and fermentation characters of co-cultures of rumen fungi and cellulolytic bacteria on different substrates].	In vitro co-culture technique and DGGE were used to investigate the dynamics of microorganism populations and fermentation characters of co-cultures of rumen fungi and cellulolytic bacteria at different substrates (concentrate to crude ratio in treatment A to E was all rice straw, 3:7, 5:5, 7:3 and all corn, respectively). The results showed that, compared with Oh, fungal population density at 24h increased in treatment B and C, but decreased in treatment A and D, and no fungi was detected in treatment E; but cellulolytic bacteria population at 24h increased with the increasing of concentrate to crude ratio. At the end of 48h fermentation, no fungi were detected in all treatments; cellulolytic bacteria population increased from treatment A to treatment C, but decreased from treatment D. DGGE results showed that samples collected in treatment A, B and C had similar DGGE patterns with about 11 dominant bands, but dominant bands in treatment D and E decreased markedly compared to treatments A, B and C. With the increasing of concentrate to crude ratio, pH value of the co-culture decreased dramatically (P < 0.05). During the fermentation periods, acetate was the major VFA in co-culture, the acetate to propionate ratio decreased from treatment A to treatment C, but increased from treatment D. With the increasing of concentrate to crude ratio, the total VFA at 48h increased from treatment A to treatment C, and then decreased. At the end of 48h fermentation, CMCase activity and xylanase activity were highest in treatment A. alpha-Amylase activity increased from treatment A to treatment D, but treatment E was the lowest in all treatments. 
23937250	20130814	Crit._Rev._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Biotechnological potential of microbial α-galactosidases.	The enzyme α-galactosidase (α-D-galactoside galactohydrolase; EC 3.2.1.22) catalyzes the hydrolysis of α-1,6-linked galactose residues in oligosaccharides and polymeric galactomannan. The α-galactosidases are of particular interest in view of their many potential biotechnological and medical applications. These enzymes have found wide use in various industries such as food and feed, sugar and paper and pulp for the removal of raffinose and stachyose. They are also important medically for blood group conversion and in the treatment of Fabry disease. Most of the research on α-galactosidases has focused on their isolation from various microbial sources. In the last decade, cloning of novel α-galactosidase genes and their heterologous expression has gained momentum. The present review focuses on the production of α-galactosidases from bacteria, fungi and yeast, and discusses their properties. Recent progress on cloning and heterologous expression in various hosts is summarized with special emphasis on their application in various fields. 
8829371	19950501	Biochem._Cell_Biol.	D016428 	Expression of Trichoderma reesei and Trichoderma viride xylanases in Escherichia coli.	Synthetic genes encoding the 190 amino acid Trichoderma reesei xylanase II (TrX) and the closely related Trichoderma viride xylanases have been synthesized in a two-step procedure. Initially, a partial gene encoding amino acids 92-190 was constructed in fusion with the N-terminal half of the Bacillus circulans xylanase (BcX). The remaining BcX gene sequence was replaced during the assembly of the coding sequence for amino acids 1-91. Expression of the synthetic genes in Escherichia coli yielded recombinant xylanases with specific activity generally identical with the natural TrX. However, the recombinant TrX showed thermostability and temperature optimum lower than those of the natural TrX, thus indicating that the posttranslational modifications of the latter in its fungal host are essential to its greater stability. A mutation N19K further decreased the thermostability of the recombinant TrX. 
1187570	19750901	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Effect of certain substances on the biosynthesis of cellulase by the thermotolerant fungus, Aspergillus terreus I7P].	Different substrates which activate the enzyme synthesis were added to the natural medium for Asp. terreus 17P cultivation where wheat straw was used as the carbon source. Tween-80, oleic acid, sodium salts of ascorbic and acetic acid, potassium salt of indolyl acetic acid, sunflower seed oil, coreander seed oil, soapstock and sugars--glucose, sucrose, fructose and lactose were tested. An addition of Tween-80 at a concentration of 0.1% to the cultivation medium showed the most favourable effect on the synthesis of cellulolytic enzymes. Milk serum and cheese serum, malt shoots and protein-vitamin complex were examined as a substitute for corn extract. Dry malt shoots added at a concentration of 1.5% was a good substitute for corn extract. 
16934902	20060829	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Construction of an Arxula adeninivorans host-vector system based on trp1 complementation.	A host/vector expression system based on an Arxula adeninivorans Delta atrp1 gene disruption mutant has been constructed. For this purpose the ATRP1 gene encoding a phosphoribosyl anthranilate isomerase was isolated from the yeast A. adeninivorans and its genome locus was characterized. The Delta atrp1 mutant was generated applying an amplified DNA fragment containing the ALEU2m gene flanked by ATRP1 gene sequences of some 750 bp. The generated auxotrophic host strain was transformed with the plasmid pAL-ATRP1-amyA, which contains the ATRP1 gene as selection marker and the 25S rDNA for targeting. For expression assessment, the plasmid was equipped with an expression cassette consisting of the Bacillus amyloliquefaciens-derived amyA gene fused to the constitutive A. adeninivorans-derived TEF1 promoter and Saccharomyces cerevisiae-derived PHO5 terminator. Transformants contained a single chromosomal copy of the heterologous DNA and were found to be mitotically stable. In initial fermentation trials on a 200 ml shake flask scale maximal alpha-amylase product levels of ca. 300 nkat ml(-1) were observed after 72 h of cultivation with more than 95% of the recombinant alpha-amylase accumulated in the culture medium. 
22993150	20120921	J._Virol.	D016428 D013485 	Hepatitis C virus infection suppresses GLUT2 gene expression via downregulation of hepatocyte nuclear factor 1α.	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection causes not only intrahepatic diseases but also extrahepatic manifestations, including type 2 diabetes. We previously reported that HCV replication suppresses cellular glucose uptake by downregulation of cell surface expression of glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2) (D. Kasai et al., J. Hepatol. 50:883-894, 2009). GLUT2 mRNA levels were decreased in both HCV RNA replicon cells and HCV J6/JFH1-infected cells. To elucidate molecular mechanisms of HCV-induced suppression of GLUT2 gene expression, we analyzed transcriptional regulation of the GLUT2 promoter using a series of GLUT2 promoter-luciferase reporter plasmids. HCV-induced suppression of GLUT2 promoter activity was abrogated when the hepatocyte nuclear factor 1α (HNF-1α)-binding motif was deleted from the GLUT2 promoter. HNF-1α mRNA levels were significantly reduced in HCV J6/JFH1-infected cells. Furthermore, HCV infection remarkably decreased HNF-1α protein levels. We assessed the effects of proteasome inhibitor or lysosomal protease inhibitors on the HCV-induced reduction of HNF-1α protein levels. Treatment of HCV-infected cells with a lysosomal protease inhibitor, but not with a proteasome inhibitor, restored HNF-1α protein levels, suggesting that HCV infection promotes lysosomal degradation of HNF-1α protein. Overexpression of NS5A protein enhanced lysosomal degradation of HNF-1α protein and suppressed GLUT2 promoter activity. Immunoprecipitation analyses revealed that the region from amino acids 1 to 126 of the NS5A domain I physically interacts with HNF-1α protein. Taken together, our results suggest that HCV infection suppresses GLUT2 gene expression via downregulation of HNF-1α expression at transcriptional and posttranslational levels. HCV-induced downregulation of HNF-1α expression may play a crucial role in glucose metabolic disorders caused by HCV. 
12021790	20020522	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Process technological effects of deletion and amplification of hydrophobins I and II in transformants of Trichoderma reesei.	Transformants of the Trichoderma reeseistrains QM9414 and Rut-C30 were constructed in which the genes for the two major hydrophobin proteins, hydrophobins I (HFBI) and II (HFBII), were deleted or amplified by molecular biological techniques. Growth parameters and foam production of the transformant strains were compared with the corresponding properties of the parent strains by cultivation in laboratory bioreactors under conditions of catabolite repression (glucose medium) or induction of cellulolytic enzymes and other secondary metabolites (cellulose and lactose media). All the transformed strains exhibited vegetative growth properties similar to those of their parent. The Delta hfb2 (but not the Delta hfb1) transformant showed reduced tendency to foam, whereas both strains overproducing hydrophobins foamed extensively, particularly in the case of HFBII. Enzyme production on cellulose medium was unaltered in the Delta hfb2 transformant VTT D-99676, but both the Delta hfb2 and HFBII-overproducing transformants exhibited somewhat decreased enzyme production properties on lactose medium. Production of HFBI by the multi-copy transformant VTT D-98692 was almost 3-fold that of the parent strain QM9414. Overproduction of HFBII by the transformant VTT D-99745, obtained by transformation with three additional copies of the hfb2 gene under the cbh1 promoter, was over 5-fold compared to production by the parent strain Rut-C30. The Delta hfb2transformant VTT D-99676 produced a greatly increased number of spores on lactose medium compared with the parent strain, whereas the HFBII-overproducing transformant VTT D-99745 produced fewer spores. 
20467747	20100515	Plant_Cell_Rep.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular characterization and differential expression of beta-1,3-glucanase during ripening in banana fruit in response to ethylene, auxin, ABA, wounding, cold and light-dark cycles.	beta-1,3-Glucanases (E.C. 3.2.1.39) are widely distributed enzyme among bacteria, fungi, and higher plants. Analyses of accumulation levels of beta-1,3-glucanase protein in various tissues in banana have clearly indicated abundance of beta-1,3-glucanase protein accumulation in ripe pulp tissue. After cloning of beta-1,3-glucanase from banana pulp (cultivar Cavendish), we have carried out an in silico analysis to investigate the sequential, structural, and phylogenetic characteristics of the putative banana beta-1,3-glucanase protein. As like other ripening specific genes, beta-1,3-glucanase is regulated in response to a wide variety of factors. Therefore, we have analyzed the transcript accumulation pattern and protein levels of beta-1,3-glucanase in response to ethylene, auxin, ABA, wounding and, low temperature in preclimacteric banana fruit. Expression profile analyses have indicated that whereas exogenous application of ethylene strongly stimulated beta-1,3-glucanase transcript accumulation, ABA partially induced the expression of the gene. On the other hand, wound treatment did not induce beta-1,3-glucanase expression. Conversely, auxin and cold treatment negatively regulated beta-1,3-glucanase gene expression and thus inhibited glucanase activity. In addition, beta-1,3-glucanase transcript level was markedly decreased by constant exposure to white light. Protein level and enzymatic activity of beta-1,3-glucanase were substantially increased with considerable decrease in fruit firmness by ethylene treatment and reduced exposure to white light conditions as compared with other treatments. Together, the overall study of beta-1,3-glucanase expression pattern, glucanase activity, and changes in fruit firmness during ripening in various conditions suggest the possible physiological function of beta-1,3-glucanase in fruit pulp softening. 
10686151	20000225	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013487 	Vectors allowing amplified expression of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Gal3p-Gal80p-Gal4p transcription switch: applications to galactose-regulated high-level production of proteins.	The Gal4, Gal80, and Gal3 proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae constitute a galactose-responsive regulatory switch for GAL gene promoters. The low cellular levels of these proteins have hampered mechanistic studies and limit the utility of the GAL gene promoters for high-yield production of endogenous and exogenous proteins. We have constructed two new vectors, pMEGA2 and pMEGA2-DeltaURA3, that increase the level of the Gal4p-Gal80p-Gal3p switch proteins under conditions that preserve the Gal3p-Gal80p-Gal4p stoichiometries required for normal switch function. Cells carrying pMEGA2 show 15- to 20-fold more Gal4p and 30- to 40-fold more Gal3p and Gal80p than cells lacking pMEGA2. These high levels of Gal4p, Gal80p, and Gal3p do not perturb the integrity of galactose-inducible regulation. Cells that carry pMEGA2 exhibit normal galactose-induction kinetics for the chromosomal MEL1 gene expression and normal, albeit slower, log-phase growth. Insertion of the MEL1 gene into pMEGA2 provides a 24- to 30-fold increase in the Mel1 protein. Cells carrying a 2-microm-based URA3-selectable plasmid containing a GAL1pro:lacZ reporter gene and a second plasmid, pMEGA2-DeltaURA3, produce 12-fold more beta-galactosidase than cells carrying only the GAL1pro:lacZ reporter plasmid. The performance of the MEGA plasmids in providing amplified production of the Gal3, Gal80, and Gal4 proteins should prove useful in investigations of the mechanistic aspects of these transcription switch proteins and in work aimed at achieving high-level, galactose-regulatable production of proteins in yeast. 
10736018	20000329	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Chitinolytic activity of actinomycetes from a cerrado soil and their potential in biocontrol.	The crude enzyme extracts from five actinomycetes selected from a cerrado soil presented very good endochitinolytic activity when compared to a commercial chitinase. Exochitinase and chitobiase activities were also detected. They were identified as Streptomyces, but could not be characterized to species level, probably corresponding to new ones. The crude extracts, obtained from growth on fungal mycelium plus chitin of three of the strains, have shown a very pronounced activity against phytopathogenic fungi. In tests using growing cells, all five strains were active. These data suggest that these strains are potential biocontrol agents. 
8532665	19950501	Protein_Eng.	D016428 	Molecular dynamics simulation of fungal cellulose-binding domains: differences in molecular rigidity but a preserved cellulose binding surface.	A total of 23 fungal cellulose-binding domain (CBD) sequences were aligned. Structural models of the cellulose-binding domain of an exoglucanase (CBHII) and of three endoglucanases (EGI, EGII and EGV) from Trichoderma reesei cellulases were homology modelled based on the NMR structure of the fungal cellobiohydrolase CBHI, from the same organism. The completed models and the known structure of the CBHI cellulose-binding domain were refined by molecular dynamics simulations in water. All four models were found to be very similar to the structure of the CBHI cellulose-binding domain and sequence comparison indicated that in general the three-dimensional structures of fungal cellulose-binding domains are very similar. In all the CBDs studied, two disulphide bridges apparently stabilize the polypeptide fold. From the models, and additional disulphide bridge was predicted in EGI and CBHII, and in eight further CBDs from other organisms. Three highly conserved aromatic residues on the hydrophilic side of the wedge make this surface flat. This surface is expected to make contact with the substrate. Three invariant amino acids, Gln7, Asn29 and Gln34, on this flat face are in suitable positions for hydrogen bonding with the cellulose surface. Analysis of the differences in the protein surface properties indicated that the endoglucanases tend to be more hydrophilic than the exoglucanases. The largest structural variation was found around positions 12-16. The fungal CBD sequences are discussed in relation to variations in function and pH dependence. Comparison of the modelled structures with experimental binding data for the CBHI and EGI allowed the formulation of a qualitative relationship to cellulose affinity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
21037302	20101102	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Podospora anserina hemicellulases potentiate the Trichoderma reesei secretome for saccharification of lignocellulosic biomass.	To improve the enzymatic hydrolysis (saccharification) of lignocellulosic biomass by Trichoderma reesei, a set of genes encoding putative polysaccharide-degrading enzymes were selected from the coprophilic fungus Podospora anserina using comparative genomics. Five hemicellulase-encoding genes were successfully cloned and expressed as secreted functional proteins in the yeast Pichia pastoris. These novel fungal CAZymes belonging to different glycoside hydrolase families (PaMan5A and PaMan26A mannanases, PaXyn11A xylanase, and PaAbf51A and PaAbf62A arabinofuranosidases) were able to break down their predicted cognate substrates. Although PaMan5A and PaMan26A displayed similar specificities toward a range of mannan substrates, they differed in their end products, suggesting differences in substrate binding. The N-terminal CBM35 module of PaMan26A displayed dual binding specificity toward xylan and mannan. PaXyn11A harboring a C-terminal CBM1 module efficiently degraded wheat arabinoxylan, releasing mainly xylobiose as end product. PaAbf51A and PaAbf62A arabinose-debranching enzymes exhibited differences in activity toward arabinose-containing substrates. Further investigation of the contribution made by each P. anserina auxiliary enzyme to the saccharification of wheat straw and spruce demonstrated that the endo-acting hemicellulases (PaXyn11A, PaMan5A, and PaMan26A) individually supplemented the secretome of the industrial T. reesei CL847 strain. The most striking effect was obtained with PaMan5A that improved the release of total sugars by 28% and of glucose by 18%, using spruce as lignocellulosic substrate. 
7756855	19950301	J_AOAC_Int	D016428 	Glucoamylase activity in industrial enzyme preparations using colorimetric enzymatic method: collaborative study.	Fifteen laboratories participated in a collaborative study to validate a colorimetric assay for the determination of glucoamylase in industrial enzyme preparations. All laboratories received 12 samples as blind duplicates provided by 3 industrial producers. Each sample was analyzed once a day for 3 days. Results from one laboratory were excluded from the statistical analysis. Performance of the method was calculated according to the AOAC guidelines. For all 15 laboratories the repeatability relative standard deviation (RSDr) values ranged from 0.89 to 2.37%, and the reproducibility relative standard deviation (RSDR) values ranged from 7.92 to 9.86. After excluding outliers the RSDr values ranged from 0.74 to 2.24%, and RSDR values ranged from 3.46 to 8.92. The colorimetric enzymatic method for determination of glucoamylase activity in industrial enzyme preparations has been adopted first action by AOAC INTERNATIONAL. 
15957238	20050617	Acta_Microbiol_Immunol_Hung	D003160 D016428 	Effect of herbizid and touchdown herbicides on soil fungi and on production of some extracellular enzymes.	Glucophilic and cellulose-decomposing fungi were significantly reduced in soil samples treated with 0.019-0.152 mg a.i./kg soil of the herbicides Herbizid and Touchdown. The decrease was regularly correlated with the doses of the two herbicides and persisted till the end of the experiment (12 weeks). The isolated fungi were found to be able to produce hydrolytic extracellular enzymes in solid media but with variable capabilities. The ability to produce enzymes was adversily affected by the incorporation of herbicides in culture media. Lower doses of herbicides were occasionally promotive to enzyme production and mycelial growth of some fungi. Incorporation of 50 ppm of Herbizid and Touchdown significantly activated amylase production and mycelial dry weight in cultures of Fusarium oxysporum, Mucor hiemalis and Penicillium chrysogenum. There was a significant increase in C1-cellulase produced by F. oxysporum and P. aurantiogriseum when cultures were treated with 50, 100 and 200 ppm of Herbizid which induced also more Cx-cellulase production by P. chrysogenum. Lipase and protease production was always lower in treated than in control fungal cultures. 
10627034	20000108	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 	Family 19 chitinases of Streptomyces species: characterization and distribution.	Chitinase C from Streptomyces griseus HUT6037, described in 1997, is the first family 19 chitinase found in an organism other than higher plants. In this study, some properties of chitinase C were compared with those of family 18 bacterial chitinases, and the distribution of family 19 chitinases in Streptomyces species was investigated. The specific hydrolysing activity of chitinase C against soluble and insoluble chitinous substrates was markedly higher than those of bacterial family 18 chitinases. Chitinase C exhibited marked antifungal activity, whereas the other bacterial chitinases examined had no antifungal activity. Chitinase C was insensitive to allosamidin, whereas the family 18 bacterial chitinases were sensitive. Taking advantage of this insensitivity to allosamidin, a search was made for family 19 chitinases in various Streptomyces species. Chitinases insensitive to allosamidin were detected in the culture supernatants of all tested Streptomyces species. Southern hybridization analysis using a labelled DNA fragment corresponding to the catalytic domain of chitinase C strongly suggested that these species have genes similar to the chiC gene of S. griseus HUT6037. DNA fragments corresponding to the major part of the catalytic domains were amplified by PCR. The amplified fragments encoded amino acid sequences very similar to that of the corresponding region of chitinase C. Therefore, it was concluded that Streptomyces species generally possess family 19 chitinases which are very similar to chitinase C. Comparison of their amino acid sequences with those of plant family 19 chitinases revealed that Streptomyces family 19 chitinases are class IV type in terms of the presence and positions of deletions of amino acid sequences which are characteristic of plant class IV chitinases. 
19373972	20090418	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Reduced genomic potential for secreted plant cell-wall-degrading enzymes in the ectomycorrhizal fungus Amanita bisporigera, based on the secretome of Trichoderma reesei.	Based on the analysis of its genome sequence, the ectomycorrhizal (ECM) basidiomycetous fungus Laccaria bicolor was shown to be lacking many of the major classes of secreted enzymes that depolymerize plant cell wall polysaccharides. To test whether this is also a feature of other ECM fungi, we searched a survey genome database of Amanita bisporigera with the proteins found in the secretome of Trichoderma reesei (syn. Hypocrea jecorina), a biochemically well-characterized industrial fungus. Additional proteins were also used as queries to compensate for major groups of cell-wall-degrading enzymes lacking in the secretome of T. reesei and to substantiate conclusions drawn from the T. reesei collection. By MS/MS-based "shotgun" proteomics, 80 proteins were identified in culture filtrates of T. reesei strain RUTC30 grown on corn cell walls and in a commercial "cellulase" preparation, Spezyme CP. The two T. reesei enzyme preparations were qualitatively and quantitatively similar, the most striking difference being the lack of at least five major peptidases from the commercial enzyme mixture. Based on our analysis of A. bisporigera, this ECM fungus is deficient in many major classes of cell-wall-degrading enzymes, including both glycosyl hydrolases and carbohydrate esterases. By comparison, the genomes of the saprophytic basidiomycetes Coprinopsis cinerea and Galerina marginata (using a genome survey sequence approximately equivalent in depth to that of A. bisporigera) have, like T. reesei, a much more complete complement of cell-wall-degrading enzymes. 
10224035	19990501	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Elevated growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae ATH1 null mutants on glucose is an artifact of nonmatching auxotrophies of mutant and reference strains.	Yeast strains disrupted for ATH1, which encodes vacuolar acid trehalase, have been reported to grow to higher cell densities than reference strains. We showed that the increase in cell density is due to the URA3 gene introduced as a part of the disruption and concluded that the misinterpretation is a result of not using a control strain with matching auxotrophic markers. 
10028181	19990224	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Cloning, sequence analysis and overexpression of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae endopolygalacturonase-encoding gene (PGL1).	Only a few yeast strains produce pectin-degrading enzymes such as pectin esterases and depolymerases (hydrolases and lyases). Strain SCPP is the only known Saccharomyces strain to produce these pectinases. One of these pectolytic enzymes. PGL1-encoded endopolygalacturonase (EC 3.2.1.15), hydrolyses the alpha-1,4-glycosidic bonds within the rhamnogalacturonan chains in pectic substances. This paper presents the cloning and sequencing of the first S. cerevisiae gene involved in pectin degradation. Few differences were found between the two deduced amino acid sequences encoded by PGL1-1 from a pectolytic (PG+) strain (SCPP) and PGL1-2 from a non-pectolytic (PG-) strain (X2180-1B). Similarities were found with other polygalacturonases from plants and other microorganisms. Of the two S. cerevisiae genes, only the one isolated from strain SCPP was able, by overexpression, to confer endopolygalacturonase activity to a laboratory strain of S. cerevisiae. Overexpression of PGL1-1 gene in a non-pectolytic strain resulted in halo formation on polygalacturonic acid-containing agar plates stained with ruthenium red. 
23280774	20130103	J._Sci._Food_Agric.	D016428 D013485 	Xylanase supplementation improves the nutritive value of diets containing high levels of sorghum distillers' dried grains with solubles for broiler chickens.	An experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of sorghum distillers' dried grains with solubles (sDDGS) and xylanase supplementation in broiler chicken diets. A total of 432 Cobb-500 day-old male broiler chicks were used in a 4 × 2 factorial design (0, 100, 200 or 300 g kg(-1) sDDGS with or without xylanase supplementation). Each treatment was replicated six times with nine birds per replicate in a 35 day study. Feed intake was increased (P < 0.001) throughout the study with the inclusion of dietary sDDGS. Body weight gain (BWG) was unaffected except for the last 2 weeks of study, when birds that received 200 and 300 g kg(-1) sDDGS had higher (P < 0.001) BWG. Feed conversion ratio (FCR) increased (P < 0.05) as sDDGS in the diet rose to 100 g kg(-1) during the starter phase and the whole period of study. Over the starter period, xylanase supplementation improved (P < 0.05) FCR, particularly for the highest inclusion of sDDGS. Protein digestibility deteriorated (P < 0.001) as sDDGS in the diet rose to 300 g kg(-1) . Xylanase reduced (P < 0.001) the concentration of xylose in the ileum of birds. The activities of sucrase and maltase in the jejunal mucosa were reduced when birds were offered 200 and 300 g kg(-1) sDDGS. Incorporation of sDDGS increased (P < 0.01) the total short-chain fatty acid concentration in the caeca. The results showed that diets containing large amounts of sDDGS will benefit from xylanase supplementation, particularly in terms of FCR. 
18943122	20081024	Phytopathology	D016428 	A Class IV Chitinase Is Up-Regulated by Fungal Infection and Abiotic Stresses and Associated with Slow-Canker-Growth Resistance to Cronartium ribicola in Western White Pine (Pinus monticola).	ABSTRACT In the present study, in a candidate gene approach, a class IV chitinase gene (PmCh4A) of pathogenesis-related family three was cloned and characterized in western white pine (Pinus monticola). PmCh4A chitinase expression in the different organs of healthy seedlings was below levels detectable by western immunoblot analysis using an antibody raised against PmCh4A protein. However, a 27-kDa isozyme of PmCh4A accu mulated in both susceptible and slow-canker-growth (SCG) resistant seedlings after infection by Cronartium ribicola. As with fungal infection, the application of a signal chemical (methyl jasmonate) and a protein phosphatase 1 and 2A inhibitor (okadaic acid) increased the PmCh4A protein accumulation. Furthermore, another 26-kDa isozyme was expressed specifically in SCG resistant seedlings, providing a potential tool for marker-assisted selection in forest breeding. Wounding treatment also induced expression of the protein. These data suggest that the class IV chitinase PmCh4A is involved in the defense response of western white pine to infection and abiotic stresses. 
1903837	19910611	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Pheromone response elements are necessary and sufficient for basal and pheromone-induced transcription of the FUS1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The FUS1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is transcribed in a and alpha cells, not in a/alpha diploids, and its transcription increases dramatically when haploid cells are exposed to the appropriate mating pheromone. In addition, FUS1 transcription is absolutely dependent on STE4, STE5, STE7, STE11, and STE12, genes thought to encode components of the pheromone response pathway. We now have determined that the pheromone response element (PRE), which occurs in four copies within the FUS1 upstream region, functions as the FUS1 upstream activation sequence (UAS) and is responsible for all known aspects of FUS1 regulation. In particular, deletion of 55 bp that includes the PREs abolished all transcription, and a 139-bp fragment that includes the PREs conferred FUS1-like expression to a CYC1-lacZ reporter gene. Moreover, three or four copies of a synthetic PRE closely mimicked the activity conferred by the 139-bp fragment, and even a single copy of PRE conferred a trace of activity that was haploid specific and pheromone inducible. In the FUS1 promoter context, four copies of the synthetic PRE inserted at the site of the 55-bp deletion restored full FUS1 transcription. Sequences upstream and downstream from the PRE cluster were important for maximal PRE-directed expression but, by themselves, did not have UAS activity. Other yeast genes with PREs, e.g., STE2 and BAR1, are more modestly inducible and have additional UAS elements contributing to the overall activity. In the FUS1 promoter, the PREs apparently act alone to confer activity that is highly stimulated by pheromone. 
5418942	19700401	Appl_Microbiol	D016428 	Production of amylase in liquid culture by a strain of Aspergillus oryzae.	The effect of different media and pH on the formation of amylase by Aspergillus oryzae EI 212 is described. Depending upon the composition of the medium and growth conditions, the fungus was found to secrete alpha- or beta-amylase, or both. Some of the properties of the partially purified alpha-amylase were found to be different from alpha-amylases from other sources. 
16347492	19871201	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Extracellular Enzyme Activities during Lignocellulose Degradation by Streptomyces spp.: A Comparative Study of Wild-Type and Genetically Manipulated Strains.	The wild-type ligninolytic actinomycete Streptomyces viridosporus T7A and two genetically manipulated strains with enhanced abilities to produce a water-soluble lignin degradation intermediate, an acid-precipitable polymeric lignin (APPL), were grown on lignocellulose in solid-state fermentation cultures. Culture filtrates were periodically collected, analyzed for APPL, and assayed for extracellular lignocellulose-catabolizing enzyme activities. Isoenzymes were analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and activity staining on the gels. Two APPL-overproducing strains, UV irradiation mutant T7A-81 and protoplast fusion recombinant SR-10, had higher and longer persisting peroxidase, esterase, and endoglucanase activities than did the wild-type strain T7A. Results implicated one or more of these enzymes in lignin solubilization. Only mutant T7A-81 had higher xylanase activity than the wild type. The peroxidase was induced by both lignocellulose and APPL. This extracellular enzyme has some similarities to previously described ligninases in fungi. This is the first report of such an enzyme in Streptomyces spp. Four peroxidase isozymes were present, and all catalyzed the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, while one also catalyzed hydrogen peroxide-dependent oxidation of homoprotocatechuic acid and caffeic acid. Three constitutive esterase isozymes were produced which differed in substrate specificity toward alpha-naphthyl acetate and alpha-naphthyl butyrate. Three endoglucanase bands, which also exhibited a low level of xylanase activity, were identified on polyacrylamide gels as was one xylanase-specific band. There were no major differences in the isoenzymes produced by the different strains. The probable role of each enzyme in lignocellulose degradation is discussed. 
6069203	19670901	Biochem._J.	D016428 	The cellulase of Trichoderma viride. Separation of the components involved in the solubilization of cotton.	1. Culture filtrates from Trichoderma viride have been fractionated by gel filtration on Sephadex G-75 followed by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE- and SE-Sephadex. 2. The components essential for attack on cotton are a carboxymethylcellulase, a cellobiase and a third (C(1)) component which has no action on CM-cellulose, cellobiose or cotton. 3. These components, which together can completely convert cotton into water-soluble products, lose this ability when separated and regain it quantitatively when recombined in their original proportions. 
23633530	20130502	DNA_Res.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Thermostable DNA ligase-mediated PCR production of circular plasmid (PPCP) and its application in directed evolution via in situ error-prone PCR.	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a powerful method to produce linear DNA fragments. Here we describe the Tma thermostable DNA ligase-mediated PCR production of circular plasmid (PPCP) and its application in directed evolution via in situ error-prone PCR. In this thermostable DNA ligase-mediated whole-plasmid amplification method, the resultant DNA nick between the 5' end of the PCR primer and the extended newly synthesized DNA 3' end of each PCR cycle is ligated by Tma DNA ligase, resulting in circular plasmid DNA product that can be directly transformed. The template plasmid DNA is eliminated by 'selection marker swapping' upon transformation. When performed under an error-prone condition with Taq DNA polymerase, PPCP allows one-step construction of mutagenesis libraries based on in situ error-prone PCR so that random mutations are introduced into the target gene without altering the expression vector plasmid. A significant difference between PPCP and previously published methods is that PPCP allows exponential amplification of circular DNA. We used this method to create random mutagenesis libraries of a xylanase gene and two cellulase genes. Screening of these libraries resulted in mutant proteins with desired properties, demonstrating the usefulness of in situ error-prone PPCP for creating random mutagenesis libraries for directed evolution.  
15494009	20041021	Biochem._Soc._Trans.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	N-glycosylated catalytic unit meets O-glycosylated propeptide: complex protein architecture in a fungal hexosaminidase.	beta-N-Acetylhexosaminidase from a filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae is a secreted enzyme known to be an important component of the binary chitinolytic system. Cloning of the hexA gene and sequencing of the enzyme revealed its unique preproprotein structure. While the enzyme's zincin-like and catalytic domain had significant similarities with members of the glycohydrolase 20 family, the propeptide was unique for the fungal enzyme. Detailed pulse-chase and inhibition studies revealed that propeptide was processed during the biosynthesis of the enzyme. Moreover, the presence of propeptide was necessary for enzyme activation, dimerization and secretion. The catalytic unit was N-glycosylated, and the propeptide was O-glycosylated, both in their C-terminal parts. Deglycosylation experiments revealed that the N-glycosylation increased the stability and solubility of the enzyme. In contrast, O-glycosylated propeptide was necessary to attain the full enzymic activity. 
12466879	20021206	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Bioprocessing strategies for improving hen egg-white lysozyme (HEWL) production by recombinant Aspergillus niger HEWL WT-13-16.	Hen egg-white lysozyme (HEWL) production by recombinant Aspergillus niger HEWL WT-13-16 from a cDNA under the control of the A. niger glucoamylase promoter was used as a model system. The fungal mycelium was either immobilized on porous Celite 560 micro-carrier or grown in suspension as pelleted and dispersed forms. The objective was to reduce the protease activity that adversely affects the expressed HEWL. Free suspension culture at uncontrolled pH served as the benchmark. The control of pH during growth at pH 4.0 gave rise to a greater than five-fold reduction of protease activity in suspension culture. An additional 38.5% decrease in protease activity was achieved in mycelial-pellet cultures in comparison to a 40.9% decrease in protease activity obtained with Celite 560 beads in an airlift vessel at controlled pH. The specific HEWL yields were 5.8, 5.0 and 4.1 mg/g dry wt. for the free suspension, mycelial-pellet, and Celite-560-immobilized cultures, respectively. 
11261722	20010323	J_Chromatogr_A	D016428 D013485 	Genetically engineered peptide fusions for improved protein partitioning in aqueous two-phase systems. Effect of fusion localization on endoglucanase I of Trichoderma reesei.	Genetic engineering has been used for fusion of the peptide tag, Trp-Pro-Trp-Pro, on a protein to study the effect on partitioning in aqueous two-phase systems. As target protein for the fusions the cellulase, endoglucanase I (endo-1,4-beta-Dglucan-4-glucanohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.4, EGI, Cel7B) of Trichoderma reesei was used. For the first time a glycosylated two-domain enzyme has been utilized for addition of peptide tags to change partitioning in aqueous two-phase systems. The aim was to find an optimal fusion localization for EGI. The peptide was (1) attached to the C-terminus end of the cellulose binding domain (CBD), (2) inserted in the glycosylated linker region, (3) added after a truncated form of EGI lacking the CBD and a small part of the linker. The different constructs were expressed in the filamentous fungus T. reesei under the gpdA promoter from Aspergillus nidulans. The expression levels were between 60 and 100 mg/l. The partitioning behavior of the fusion proteins was studied in an aqueous two-phase model system composed of the thermoseparating ethylene oxide (EO)-propylene oxide (PO) random copolymer EO-PO (50:50) (EO50PO50) and dextran. The Trp-Pro-Trp-Pro tag was found to direct the fusion protein to the top EO50PO50 phase. The partition coefficient of a fusion protein can be predicted with an empirical correlation based on independent contributions from partitioning of unmodified protein and peptide tag in this model system. The fusion position at the end of the CBD, with the spacer Pro-Gly, was shown to be optimal with respect to partitioning and tag efficiency factor (TEF) was 0.87, where a fully exposed tag would have a TEF of 1.0. Hence, this position can further be utilized for fusion with longer tags. For the other constructs the TEF was only 0.43 and 0.10, for the tag fused to the truncated EGI and in the linker region of the full length EGI, respectively. 
8692900	19960625	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013487 	Molecular cloning of the first metazoan beta-1,3 glucanase from eggs of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus.	We report the molecular cloning of the first beta-1,3 glucanase from animal tissue. Three peptide sequences were obtained from beta-1,3 glucanase that had been purified from eggs of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus and the gene was cloned by PCR using oligonucleotides deduced from the peptide sequences. The full-length cDNA shows a predicted enzyme structure of 499 aa with a hydrophobic signal sequence. A 3.2-kb message is present in eggs, during early embryogenesis, and in adult gut tissue. A polyclonal antibody to the native 68-kDa enzyme recognizes a single band during early embryogenesis that reappears in the adult gut, and recognizes a 57-kDa fusion protein made from a full-length cDNA clone for beta-1,3 glucanase. The identity of this molecule as beta-1,3 glucanase is confirmed by sequence homology, by the presence of all three peptide sequences in the deduced amino acid sequence, and by the recognition of the bacterial fusion protein by the antibody directed against the native enzyme. Data base searches show significant homology at the amino acid level to beta-1,3 glucanases from two species of bacteria and a clotting factor from the horseshoe crab. The homology with the bacteria is centered in a 304-aa region in which there are seven scattered regions of high homology between the four divergent species. These four species were also found to have two homologous regions in common with more distantly related plant, fungal, and bacterial proteins. A global phylogeny based on these regions strongly suggests that the glucanases are a very ancient family of genes. In particular, there is an especially deep split within genes taken from the bacterial genus Bacillus. 
11170742	20010215	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	The Effect of organic nitrogen sources on recombinant glucoamylase production by Aspergillus niger in chemostat culture.	Aspergillus niger B1, a recombinant strain carrying 20 extra copies of the native glucoamylase gene, was grown in glucose-limited chemostat cultures supplemented with various organic nitrogen sources (dilution rate 0.12 +/- 0.01 h(-1), pH 5.4). In cultures supplemented with l-alanine, l-methionine, casamino acids, or peptone, specific glucoamylase (GAM) production rapidly decreased to less than 20% of the initial level. Reducing the pH of the culture to 4.0 resulted in stable GAM production for up to 400 h. Morphological mutants (a light brown and a dark brown mutant) appeared in each fermentation and generally displaced B1. Light brown mutants had higher selection coefficients relative to B1 than dark brown mutants and became the dominant strain in all fermentations except those maintained at pH 4.0. Several mutants isolated from these cultures had reduced ability to produce GAM in batch culture, although few had lost copies of the glaA gene. Some mutants had methylated DNA. 
18850325	20081014	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Physiological implication of intracellular trehalose and mannitol changes in response of entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana to thermal stress.	To explore possible role of intracellular trehalose accumulation in fungal tolerance to summer-like thermal stress, 3-day colonies of Beauveria bassiana grown on a glucose-free medium at 25 degrees C were separately exposed to 35, 37.5 and 40 degrees C for 1-18 h, respectively. Trehalose accumulation in stressed mycelia increased from initial 4.2 to 88.3, 74.7 and 65.5 mg g(-1) biomass after 6-h stress at 35, 37.5 and 40 degrees C, respectively, while intracellular mannitol level generally declined with higher temperatures and longer stress time. The stress-enhanced trehalose level was significantly correlated to decreased trehalase activity (r(2) = 0.73) and mannitol content (r(2) = 0.38), which was inversely correlated to the activity of mannitol dehydrogenase (r(2) = 0.41) or mannitol 1-phosphate dehydrogenase (r(2) = 0.30) under the stresses. All stressed cultures were successfully recovered at 25 degrees C but their vigor depended on stressful temperature, time length and the interaction of both (r (2) = 0.98). The highest level of 6-h trehalose accumulation at 35 degrees C was found enhancing the tolerance of the stressed cultures to the greater stress of 48 degrees C. The results suggest that the trehalose accumulation result partially from metabolized mannitol and contribute to the fungal thermotolerance. Trehalase also contributed to the thermotolerance by hydrolyzing accumulated trehalose under the conditions of thermal stress and recovery. 
23587418	20130417	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Ethanol inducible expression of a mesophilic cellulase avoids adverse effects on plant development.	Plant-produced biomass-degrading enzymes are promising tools for the processing of lignocellulose to fermentable sugars. A major limitation of in planta production is that high-level expression of such enzymes could potentially affect the structure and integrity of the plant cell wall and negatively influence plant growth and development. Here, we evaluate the impact on tobacco plant development of constitutive versus alcohol-inducible expression of the endoglucanase TrCel5A from the mesophilic fungus Trichoderma reesei. Using this system, we are able to demonstrate that constitutive expression of the enzyme, controlled by the doubled Cauliflower Mosaic Virus promoter, leads to lower cellulose content of the plant combined with severe effects on plant growth. However, using an alcohol-inducible expression of the endoglucanase in the plant leaves, we achieved similar enzymatic expression levels with no changes in the crystalline cellulose content. We were able to produce significant amounts of cellulase in the plant leaves without detrimental effects to plant development. These results demonstrate the potential feasibility of an inducible expression system for producing biomass degrading enzymes in plants. 
15213407	20040624	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of a fungal saponin-detoxifying enzyme.	Tomatinase, an extracellular enzyme belonging to family 3 of the glycosyl hydrolases, is produced by the fungal tomato-leaf pathogen Septoria lycopersici and detoxifies the saponin alpha-tomatine. An efficient strategy for purification of the enzyme from fungal culture medium has been developed. Single crystals have been grown by vapour diffusion at 289 K from 17.5%(w/v) PEG 4K, 5%(v/v) 2-propanol and 0.1 M sodium acetate pH 4.5 as precipitant. When cryoprotected at 100 K, these crystals diffract to at least 3.0 A and belong to space group P2(1)2(1)2. Based on an estimated molecular weight of 110 kDa for the glycosylated protein and assuming two molecules in the asymmetric unit, the crystals contain approximately 46% solvent. 
2373365	19900430	Gene	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Nucleotide sequence of the engXCA gene encoding the major endoglucanase of Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris.	The nucleotide sequence of the gene (engXCA) encoding the major extracellular endoglucanase (ENGXCA) of the phytopathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (X. c. campestris) was determined and compared with the N-terminal amino acid (aa) sequence of the purified enzyme. An open reading frame of 1479 bp encoding 493 aa was identified, of which the N-terminal 25 aa represent a potential signal peptide. Determination of the exact position of a Tn5 insertion within engXCA, which did not reduce the encoded enzyme activity, indicated that the C-terminal region of the protein is not crucial for ENGXCA activity. Comparison of the complete deduced aa sequence with those deduced from other endoglucanase- and exoglucanase-encoding genes revealed a region with a high degree of homology, located towards the C terminus of the protein. These data indicate that the X. c. campestris ENGXCA may have a domain structure similar to that of many other bacterial and fungal cellulolytic enzymes. Hydrophobic cluster analysis was performed on the deduced aa sequence. Comparison of this analysis with those of 30 other cellulase sequences belonging to six different families indicated that the X. c. campestris enzyme can be classified in family A. The two aa residues which had previously been identified as 'potentially catalytic' within this family of cellulases, are conserved in the X. c. campestris ENGXCA. 
23520578	20130323	Acta_Biochim._Pol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and properties of an α-(1 → 3)-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.84) from Trichoderma harzianum and its use for reduction of artificial dental plaque accumulation.	Extracellular α-(1 → 3)-glucanase (mutanase, EC 3.2.1.84) produced by Trichoderma harzianum CCM F-340 was purified to homogeneity by ultrafiltration followed by ion exchange and hydrophobic interaction chromatography, and final chromatofocusing. The enzyme was recovered with an 18.4-fold increase in specific activity and a yield of 4.3%. Some properties of the α-(1 → 3)-glucanase were investigated. The molecular mass of the enzyme is 67 kDa, as estimated by SDS/PAGE, its isoelectric point 7.1, and the carbohydrate content 3%. The pH and temperature optima are 5.5 and 45°C, respectively. The enzyme is stable over a pH range of 4.5-6.0 and up to 45°C for 1 h. The Km and Vmax under standard assay conditions are 0.73 mg/ml and 11.39 x 10(-2) µmol/min/mg protein, respectively. The enzyme activity is stimulated by addition of Mg(2+) and Na(+), and significantly inhibited by Hg(2+). The α-(1 → 3)-glucanase preparation preferentially catalyzed the hydrolysis of various streptococcal mutans and fungal α-(1 → 3)-glucans. The 20-residue N-terminal sequence of the enzyme is identical with those of other α-(1 → 3)-glucanases from the genus Trichoderma, and highly similar to those from other fungi. The purified α-(1 → 3)-glucanase was effective in preventing artificial dental plaque formation. The easy purification from fermentation broth and high stability, and the effective inhibition of oral biofilm accumulation make this α-(1 → 3)-glucanase highly useful for industrial and medical application. 
560223	19770701	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013486 	Cellobiase from Trichoderma viride: purification, properties, kinetics, and mechanism.	Three distinct cellobiase components were isolated from a commercial Trichoderma viride cellulase preparation by repeated chromatography on DEAE cellulose eluting by a salt gradient. The purified cellobiase preparations were evaluated for physical properties, kinetics, and mechanism. Results from this work include: 1) development of one step enzyme purification procedure using DEAE-cellulose; 2) isolation of three chromatographically distinct, yet kinetically similar, cellobiase fractions of molecular weight of approximately 76,000; 3) determination of kinetics which shows that cellobiase hydrolyzes cellobiose by a noncompetitive mechanism and that the product, glucose, inhibits the enzyme, and 4) development of an equation, based on the mechanism of cellobiase action, which accurately predicts the time course of cellobiose hydrolysis over an eightfold range of substrate concentration and conversions of up to 90%. Based on the data presented in the paper, it is shown that product inhibition of cellobiase significantly retards the rate of cellobiose hydrolysis. 
12508851	20030102	Int._J._Syst._Evol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Stenotrophomonas rhizophila sp. nov., a novel plant-associated bacterium with antifungal properties.	A polyphasic taxonomic study was performed on 16 Stenotrophomonas strains from environmental and clinical sources. A group of three plant-associated isolates were shown to be phenotypically different from the other strains. This group formed a separate physiological cluster (B1) with 42% heterogeneity to the other isolates. The defining characteristics of the new species were as follows: growth at 4 degrees C and the absence of growth at 40 degrees C; the utilization of xylose as a carbon source; lower osmolytic tolerance (< 4.5% NaCl, w/v), although the isolates can produce trehalose and glucosylglycerol as osmoprotective substances; the absence of lipase and beta-glucosidase production; and antifungal activity against plant-pathogenic fungi. The whole-cell fatty acid profile of this group was different and characterized by the main fatty acids iso-C15:0 and anteiso-C15:0. Numerical analysis of the fatty acid profiles of the strains examined supports the differentiation of the physiological B1 group. By 16S rDNA analysis, three clusters were distinguished. The three strains of the B1 group formed a separate environmental cluster (E1). They showed a mean similarity of 99.5% within the cluster, and differed from strains of a second environmental cluster (E2) by 2.2% and from the clinical cluster (C) by about 3.0%. DNA-DNA hybridization data supported the taxonomic differentiation. All results led to the proposal of a new species, Stenotrophomonas rhizophila sp. nov., with strain e-p10(T) (= DSM 14405(T) = ATCC BAA-473(T)) as the type strain. 
23485399	20130315	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of cell wall integrity stress and RlmA transcription factor on asexual development and autolysis in Aspergillus nidulans.	The cell wall integrity (CWI) signaling pathway is responsible for cell wall remodeling and reinforcement upon cell wall stress, which is proposed to be universal in fungal cultures. In Aspergillus nidulans, both the deletion of rlmA encoding the RlmA transcription factor in CWI signaling and low concentrations of the cell wall polymer intercalating agent Congo Red caused significant physiological changes. The gene deletion mutant ΔrlmA strain showed decreased CWI and oxidative stress resistances, which indicated the connection between the CWI pathway and the oxidative stress response system. The Congo Red stress resulted in alterations in the cell wall polymer composition in submerged cultures due to the induction of the biosynthesis of the alkali soluble fraction as well as the hydrolysis of cell wall biopolymers. Both RlmA and RlmA-independent factors induced by Congo Red stress regulated the expression of glucanase (ANID_00245, engA) and chitinase (chiB, chiA) genes, which promoted the autolysis of the cultures and also modulated the pellet sizes. CWI stress and rlmA deletion affected the expression of brlA encoding the early conidiophore development regulator transcription factor BrlA and, as a consequence, the formation of conidiophores was significantly changed in submerged cultures. Interestingly, the number of conidiospores increased in surface cultures of the ΔrlmA strain. The in silico analysis of genes putatively regulated by RlmA and the CWI transcription factors AnSwi4/AnSwi6 in the SBF complex revealed only a few jointly regulated genes, including ugmA and srrA coding for UgmA UDP-galactopyranose mutase and SrrA stress response regulator, respectively. 
10832	19760101	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 	Starch degradation by the mould Trichoderma viride. I. The mechanism of starch degradation.	The mechanism of starch degradation by the fungus Trichoderma viride was studied in strain CBS 354.44, which utilizes glucose, starch and dextrins but is unable to assimilate maltose. It was shown that the amylolytic enzyme system is completely extracellular, equally well induced by starch, amylose or amylopectin and that it consists mainly of enzymes of the glucoamylase type which yield glucose as the main product of starch hydrolysis. Small amounts of alpha-amylase are produced also. The enzymes produced in starch cultures degrade starch, amylose and amylopectin equally well. Enzyme synthesis in starch media takes place to a considerable extent after exhaustion of the carbon source when maximum growth has been attained. Low-molecular dextrins are degraded by extracellular enzymes of the glucoamylase type. These enzymes are produced in media containing starch or dextrins. Maltotriose is consumed for only one third leaving maltose in the culture filtrate. Maltose is hardly attacked and hardly induces any amylolytic enzyme activity. No stable alpha-glucosidase appears to be produced. 
10906956	20000725	EXS	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 D016454 	The structure and action of chitinases.	Chitin is second only to cellulose in biomass and it is an important component of many cell wall structures. Several families of enzymes, of distinctly different structure, have evolved to hydrolyze this important polysaccaride. Glycohydrolase family 18 enzymes, chitinases, are characterized by an eight-fold alpha/beta barrel structure; it has representatives among bacteria, fungi, and higher plants. In general these chitinases act through a retaining mechanism in which beta linked polymer is cleaved to release a beta anomer product. Family 19 chitinases are found primarily in plants but some are found in bacteria. Members of this family are related to one another by amino acid sequence, but are unrelated to family 18 proteins. They have a bilobal structure with a high alpha-helical content. Despite any significant sequence homology with lysozymes, structural analysis reveals that family 19 chitinases, together with family 46 chitosanases, are similar to several lysozymes including those from T4-phage and from goose. The structures reveal that the different enzyme groups arose from a common ancestor glycohydrolase antecedent to the procaryotic/eucaryotic divergence. In general, the family 19 enzymes operate through an inverting mechanism. 
11376609	20010530	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 	Enzymic alpha-galactosylation of a cyclic glucotetrasaccharide derived from alternan.	Alternanase catalyzes the hydrolysis of alternan, an alpha-(1-->3)-alpha-(1-->6)-D-glucan produced by Leuconostoc mesenteroides, resulting in the formation of a cyclic tetramer cyclo -->3)-alpha-D-Glcp-(1-->6)-alpha-D-Glcp-(1-->(2) (cGlc(4)). Two alpha-galactosidases, one from coffee bean and the other produced by a fungus, currently described as Thermomyces lanuginosus, were found to catalyze an efficient 6-O-alpha-D-galactopyranosylation of cGlc(4). The attachment of a nonreducing alpha-D-galactopyranosyl residue to the cGlc(4) molecule opens new possibilities for future applications of the cyclic tetramer, since the D-galactopyranosyl residue can be easily modified by D-galactose oxidase to introduce a reactive aldehyde group. The results also extend our knowledge about the synthetic potential of T. lanuginosus alpha-galactosidase. 
23406337	20130215	FEMS_Microbiol._Ecol.	D016428 D013485 	Root and arbuscular mycorrhizal mycelial interactions with soil microorganisms in lowland tropical forest.	Tropical forests have high rates of soil carbon cycling, but little information is available on how roots, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), and free-living microorganisms interact and influence organic matter mineralization in these ecosystems. We used mesh ingrowth cores and isotopic tracers in phospholipid fatty acid biomarkers to investigate the effects of roots and AMF mycelia on (1) microbial community composition, microbial carbon utilization, and hydrolytic enzyme activities for large, potted tropical trees and (2) enzyme activities and litter mass loss in a lowland tropical forest. Under the tropical tree, plant-derived carbon was incorporated predominantly into bacterial groups in both rhizosphere and AMF-only soils. Gram-positive bacteria incorporated additional soil-derived carbon in rhizosphere soils, which also contained the highest microbial biomass. For hydrolytic enzymes, β-glucosidase and N-acetyl β-glucosaminidase activities were highest in rhizosphere soils, while phosphomonoesterase activity was highest in AMF-only soil. In the forest, leaf litter mass loss was increased by the presence of roots, but not by the presence of AMF mycelia only. Root-microbial interactions influenced organic matter cycling, with evidence for rhizosphere priming and accelerated leaf litter decomposition in the presence of roots. Although AMF mycelia alone did not stimulate organic matter mineralization, they were a conduit of carbon to other soil microorganisms. 
16026881	20050720	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Autoregulated, bidirectional and multicistronic gas-inducible mammalian as well as lentiviral expression vectors.	We present a novel set of autoregulated, bidirectional and multicistronic mammalian as well as lentiviral expression vectors which enable transgene expression fine-tuning by gaseous acetaldehyde. The acetaldehyde-inducible regulation (AIR) technology capitalizes on Aspergillus nidulans components evolved to convert ethanol into metabolic energy. AIR is based on functional interaction of the fungal transactivator AlcR and AlcR-specific chimeric promoters (P(AIR)) which drive desired transgene expression in mammalian cells only in the presence of gaseous acetaldehyde. We have engineered AIR technology into a variety of different mammalian and lentiviral expression vector systems including (i) a most compact autoregulated expression format harboring alcR and the transgene in a single P(AIR)-driven transcription unit, (ii) a bidirectional P(AIR) derivative supporting expression of two transgenes with strict 1:1 transcription stoichiometry and (iii) a multicistronic expression arrangement providing simultaneous translation of three independent transgenes from a single P(AIR)-controlled transcript. All expression vectors have been validated in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO-K1), baby hamster kidney (BHK-21) and human HeLa cells for gas-inducible (co-)expression of the reporter transgenes such as Bacillus stearothermophilus-derived secreted alpha-amylase (SAMY), human vascular endothelial growth factor 121 (VEGF121), human placental-secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) and Escherichia coli-derived chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase (CAT). The panoply of mammalian/lentiviral vectors presented here provides a robust and versatile expression platform for the first gas-inducible transgene control system which we expect to foster future advances in gene therapy, tissue engineering as well as biopharmaceutical manufacturing. 
11956747	20020417	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Spacer-elongated cell wall fusion proteins improve cell surface expression in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Fusion proteins for cell surface expression in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were constructed that consisted of the N-terminal leader sequence of Kre1p, followed by the nine amino acid viral epitope hemagglutinin (HA), and the carboxyterminal anchoring domain of either Cwp2p or Flo1p. All fusions were constitutively expressed under transcriptional control of the phosphoglycerate kinase promoter and immunofluorescence analysis indicated that in each construct the HA peptide was correctly anchored to the outer yeast cell surface. Successful solubilization of the cell wall fusions by laminarinase treatment indicated that the fusions are covalently linked to cell wall beta-1,3- D-glucans in vivo. FACS analyses further demonstrated that 70% of the yeast cell population expressed the corresponding cell wall fusion. Neither the number of positive cells within the population nor the distribution of the fusion at the single-cell level were negatively affected by replacing the "heterologous" Kre1p leader by the "native" Cwp2p leader. Insertion of a 350 amino acid Ser/Thr-rich spacer sequence into the fusions led to a dramatic increase in HA peptide accessibility on the yeast cell surface. Our data show that FACS analyses represent a valuable means for investigating cell surface expression, and indicate that artificial-spacer-elongated cell wall fusions might raise novel possibilities for cell surface expression of heterologous proteins in yeast. 
22583625	20120516	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of lignocellulolytic enzymes in Pichia pastoris.	Sustainable utilization of plant biomass as renewable source for fuels and chemical building blocks requires a complex mixture of diverse enzymes, including hydrolases which comprise the largest class of lignocellulolytic enzymes. These enzymes need to be available in large amounts at a low price to allow sustainable and economic biotechnological processes.Over the past years Pichia pastoris has become an attractive host for the cost-efficient production and engineering of heterologous (eukaryotic) proteins due to several advantages. In this paper codon optimized genes and synthetic alcohol oxidase 1 promoter variants were used to generate Pichia pastoris strains which individually expressed cellobiohydrolase 1, cellobiohydrolase 2 and beta-mannanase from Trichoderma reesei and xylanase A from Thermomyces lanuginosus. For three of these enzymes we could develop strains capable of secreting gram quantities of enzyme per liter in fed-batch cultivations. Additionally, we compared our achieved yields of secreted enzymes and the corresponding activities to literature data. In our experiments we could clearly show the importance of gene optimization and strain characterization for successfully improving secretion levels. We also present a basic guideline how to correctly interpret the interplay of promoter strength and gene dosage for a successful improvement of the secretory production of lignocellulolytic enzymes in Pichia pastoris. 
20532947	20100610	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of aromatic compounds on the production of laccase and manganese peroxidase by white-rot basidiomycetes.	Three white-rot fungi displayed a wide diversity in their response to supplemented aromatic compounds. Pyrogallol stimulated Cerrena unicolor laccase and manganese peroxidase (MnP) synthesis in synthetic medium 2.5- and 2-fold, respectively, whereas 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) brought about a 2.8-fold increase in laccase yield by Trametes versicolor in submerged fermentation of ethanol production residue. No effect of the tested aromatic compounds on enzyme secretion by Ganoderma lucidum in mannitol-containing medium was detected. Nevertheless, G. lucidum is a potent producer of laccase in submerged fermentation of wheat bran and enzyme synthesis can be further increased by supplementation of medium with an appropriate inducer. The structure and the concentration of aromatic compounds play an important role in the regulation of enzyme synthesis. The supplementation of synthetic medium with 0.03-0.3 mM TNT or hydroquinone increased the differential rate of laccase synthesis by C. unicolor from 1,267 to 3,125-8,630 U mg biomass(-1) day(-1). Moreover, the same aromatic compound may function as either an inducer or a repressor, depending on the fungus and enzyme studied. Thus, hydroquinone increased 3-fold T. versicolor laccase activity decreasing 2- and 8-fold the yields of MnP and endoglucanase, respectively. 
8065260	19940501	Mol._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Cellobiohydrolase A (CbhA) from the cellulolytic bacterium Cellulomonas fimi is a beta-1,4-exocellobiohydrolase analogous to Trichoderma reesei CBH II.	The gene cbhA from the cellulolytic bacterium Cellulomonas fimi encodes a protein of 872 amino acids designated cellobiohydrolase A (CbhA). Mature CbhA contains 832 amino acid residues and has a predicted molecular mass of 85,349 Da. It is composed of five domains: an N-terminal catalytic domain, three repeated sequences of 95 amino acids, and a C-terminal cellulose-binding domain typical of other C. fimi glycanases. The structure and enzymatic activities of the CbhA catalytic domain are closely related to those of CBH II, an exocellobiohydrolase in the glycosyl hydrolase family B from the fungus Trichoderma reesei. CbhA is the first such enzyme to be characterized in bacteria. The data support the proposal that extended loops around the active site distinguish exohydrolases from endohydrolases in this enzyme family. 
7597853	19950430	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Genetic mapping of the alpha-galactosidase MEL gene family on right and left telomeres of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The alpha-galactosidase MEL2-MEL10 genes have been genetically mapped to right and left telomere regions of the following chromosomes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae: MEL2 at VII L, MEL3 at XVI L, MEL4 at XI L, MEL5 at IV L, MEL6 at XIII R, MEL7 at VI R, MEL8 at XV R, MEL9 at X R and MEL10 at XII R. A set of tester strains with URA3 inserted into individual telomeres and no MEL genes was used for mapping. 
3269796	19870201	Microbiologia	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Isolation of a cellulase hyperproducer Trichoderma pseudokoningii mutant].	The present study describes the production of cellulases by a native strain of Trichoderma pseudokoningii in the presence and absence of a catabolic repressor. We report a plate assay for selecting fungal mutants capable of synthesizing the cellulase enzymes under conditions of catabolite repression. This method was used for the selection of catabolite repression-resistant mutants. One mutant, B-1, secreted 3.3 times the extracellular protein and 3 times the endoglucanase and filter paper activity in submerged cultures when compared with the wild type strain. The cellobiase activity remained at similar levels in both strains. Although this mutant was isolated as i cellulase producer in the presence of 500 mM glycerol on agar plates, in liquid medium containing the repressor B-1 it exhibits only partial derepression of the cellulase complex. 
23519813	20130323	Acta_Crystallogr._Sect._F_Struct._Biol._Cryst._Commun.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Heterologous expression, purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of Trichoderma reesei xylanase II and four variants.	Xylanase II from Trichoderma reesei catalyzes the hydrolysis of glycosidic bonds in xylan. Crystallographic studies of this commercially important enzyme have been initiated to investigate its reaction mechanism, substrate binding and dependence on basic pH conditions. The wild-type protein was heterologously expressed in an Escherichia coli host using the defined medium and four active-site amino acids were replaced to abolish its activity (E177Q and E86Q) or to change its pH optimum (N44D and N44H). Cation-exchange and size-exclusion chromatography were used to obtain >90% protein purity. The ligand-free proteins and variant complexes containing substrate (xylohexaose) or product (xylotriose) were crystallized in several different space groups and diffracted to high resolutions (from 1.07 to 1.55 Å). 
12362403	20021004	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 	Synthesis of alpha-amylase by Aspergillus oryzae in solid-state fermentation.	Spent Brewing Grains (SBG) was evaluated for its efficacy to be used as sole carbon source for the synthesis of alpha-amylase in solid-state fermentation using a fungal strain of Aspergillus oryzae NRRL 6270. Enzyme production was superior when the culture grew on mesophilic temperatures and best yields were at 25 degrees C. At 30 degrees C, yields were almost comparable. Maximum production of alpha-amylase [6870 U/g dry substrate (gds)] was obtained when SSF was carried out at 30 degrees C for 96 h using SBG medium, which had initial moisture of 70% and was inoculated using a spore suspension containing 1 x 10(7) spores/ml. Supplementation of SBG with external carbon sources such as mono-, di and polysaccharides caused repression in enzyme synthesis by the fungal culture. 
18478384	20080515	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Filter paper degrading ability of a Trichoderma strain with multinucleate conidia.	The multinucleate conidia were produced from the green mature conidia of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 strain by colchicine treatment. The strain with higher Filter paper degrading ability was selected among those conidia using a double layer selection medium. The selected strain, JS-2 was able to collapse the filter paper within 15 min but the original strain took 25 min to collapse it completely. Moreover, the amount of reducing sugar in the L-type glass tube of the strain, JS-2 was greater than that of the original strain. The Avicel, CMC-Na, and Salicin hydrolyzing activity of the strain, JS-2, increased 2.1 times, 1.2 times, and 3.6 times higher than that of the original strain. 
17938914	20071017	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Purification and biochemical characterization of a transglucosilating beta-glucosidase of Stachybotrys strain.	The filamentous fungus Stachybotrys sp has been shown to possess a rich beta-glucosidase system composed of five beta-glucosidases. One of them was already purified to homogeneity and characterized. In this work, a second beta-glucosidase was purified and characterized. The filamentous fungal A19 strain was fed-batch cultivated on cellulose, and its extracellular cellulases (mainly beta-glucosidases) were analyzed. The purified enzyme is a monomeric protein of 78 kDa molecular weight and exhibits optimal activity at pH 6.0 and at 50 degrees C. The kinetic parameters, K (m) and V (max), on para-nitro-phenyl-beta-D: -glucopyranosid (p-NPG) as a substrate were, respectively, 1.846 +/- 0.11 mM and 211 +/- 0.08 micromol min(-1) ml(-1). One interesting feature of this enzyme is its high stability in a wide range of pH from 4 to 10. Besides its aryl beta-glucosidase activity towards salicin, methylumbellypheryl-beta-D: -glucoside (MU-Glc), and p-NPG, it showed a true beta-glucosidase activity because it splits cellobiose into two glucose monomers. This enzyme has the capacity to synthesize short oligosaccharides from cellobiose as the substrate concentration reaches 30% with a recovery of 40%. We give evidences for the involvement of a transglucosylation to synthesize cellotetraose by a sequential addition of glucose to cellotriose. 
8590407	19951001	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Increased thermal stability of the enzyme content in permeabilized whole cells from the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe by exogenous trehalose and other compounds.	Cells of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe were permeabilized by treatment with toluene-ethanol. The permeabilized cells lost the bulk of the internal trehalose pool while most of the alkaline phosphatase, invertase, alpha-glucosidase, or neutral trehalase activities located inside the cells remained unaffected. This system was used as an in situ assay to determine the involvement of trehalose in enzyme protection during thermal treatments. The addition of trehalose to suspensions of permeabilized cells resulted in a sugar-dependent thermoprotection of the internal marker enzymes. This approach demonstrates that in whole cells of the fission yeast trehalose plays a physiological role as a protective molecule against thermal denaturation of cellular enzymes. 
8424790	19930115	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and properties of three (1-->3)-beta-D-glucanase isoenzymes from young leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare).	Three (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.39) isoenzymes GI, GII and GIII were purified from young leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare) using (NH4)2SO4 fractional precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography, chromatofocusing and gel-filtration chromatography. The three (1-->3)-beta-D-glucanases are monomeric proteins of apparent M(r)32,000 with pI values in the range 8.8-10.3. N-terminal amino-acid-sequence analyses confirmed that the three isoenzymes represent the products of separate genes. Isoenzymes GI and GII are less stable at elevated temperatures and are active over a narrower pH range than is isoenzyme GIII, which is a glycoprotein containing 20-30 mol of hexose equivalents/mol of enzyme. The preferred substrate for the enzymes is laminarin from the brown alga Laminaria digitata, an essentially linear (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan with a low degree of glucosyl substitution at 0-6 and a degree of polymerization of approx. 25. The three enzymes are classified as endohydrolases, because they yield (1-->3)-beta-D-oligoglucosides with degrees of polymerization of 3-8 in the initial stages of hydrolysis of laminarin. Kinetic analyses indicate apparent Km values in the range 172-208 microM, kcat. constants of 36-155 s-1 and pH optima of 4.8. Substrate specificity studies show that the three isoenzymes hydrolyse substituted (1-->3)-beta-D-glucans with degrees of polymerization of 25-31 and various high-M(r), substituted and side-branched fungal (1-->3;1-->6)-beta-D-glucans. However, the isoenzymes differ in their rates of hydrolysis of a (1-->3;1-->6)-beta-D-glucan from baker's yeast and their specific activities against laminarin vary significantly. The enzymes do not hydrolyse (1-->3;1-->4)-beta-D-glucans, (1-->6)-beta-D-glucan, CM-cellulose, insoluble (1-->3)-beta-D-glucans or aryl beta-D-glycosides. 
24241958	20131119	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	The role of CRE1 in nucleosome positioning within the cbh1 promoter and coding regions of Trichoderma reesei.	Nucleosome positioning within the promoter and coding regions of the cellobiohydrolase-encoding cbh1 gene of Trichoderma reesei was investigated. T. reesei is a filamentous fungus that is able to degrade dead plant biomass by secreting enzymes such as cellulases, a feature which is exploited in industrial applications. In the presence of different carbon sources, regulation of one of these cellulase-encoding genes, cbh1, is mediated by various transcription factors including CRE1. Deletion or mutation of cre1 caused an increase in cbh1 transcript levels under repressing conditions. CRE1 was shown to bind to several consensus recognition sequences in the cbh1 promoter region in vitro. Under repressing conditions (glucose), the cbh1 promoter and coding regions are occupied by several positioned nucleosomes. Transcription of cbh1 in the presence of the inducer sophorose resulted in a loss of nucleosomes from the coding region and in the re-positioning of the promoter nucleosomes which prevents CRE1 from binding to its recognition sites within the promoter region. Strains expressing a non-functional CRE1 (in strains with mutated CRE1 or cre1-deletion) exhibited a loss of positioned nucleosomes within the cbh1 coding region under repressing conditions only. This indicates that CRE1 is important for correct nucleosome positioning within the cbh1 coding region under repressing conditions.  
17589813	20070626	Adv._Biochem._Eng._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Thermostable enzymes in lignocellulose hydrolysis.	Thermostable enzymes offer potential benefits in the hydrolysis of lignocellulosic substrates; higher specific activity decreasing the amount of enzymes, enhanced stability allowing improved hydrolysis performance and increased flexibility with respect to process configurations, all leading to improvement of the overall economy of the process. New thermostable cellulase mixtures were composed of cloned fungal enzymes for hydrolysis experiments. Three thermostable cellulases, identified as the most promising enzymes in their categories (cellobiohydrolase, endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase), were cloned and produced in Trichoderma reesei and mixed to compose a novel mixture of thermostable cellulases. Thermostable xylanase was added to enzyme preparations used on substrates containing residual hemicellulose. The new optimised thermostable enzyme mixtures were evaluated in high temperature hydrolysis experiments on technical steam pretreated raw materials: spruce and corn stover. The hydrolysis temperature could be increased by about 10-15 degrees C, as compared with present commercial Trichoderma enzymes. The same degree of hydrolysis, about 90% of theoretical, measured as individual sugars, could be obtained with the thermostable enzymes at 60 degrees C as with the commercial enzymes at 45 degrees C. Clearly more efficient hydrolysis per assayed FPU unit or per amount of cellobiohydrolase I protein used was obtained. The maximum FPU activity of the novel enzyme mixture was about 25% higher at the optimum temperature at 65 degrees C, as compared with the highest activity of the commercial reference enzyme at 60 degrees C. The results provide a promising basis to produce and formulate improved enzyme products. These products can have high temperature stability in process conditions in the range of 55-60 degrees C (with present industrial products at 45-50 degrees C) and clearly improved specific activity, essentially decreasing the protein dosage required for an efficient hydrolysis of lignocellulosic substrates. New types of process configurations based on thermostable enzymes are discussed. 
22935226	20120901	Virology	D016428 D052061 	Mumps virus inhibits migration of primary human macrophages toward a chemokine gradient through a TNF-alpha dependent mechanism.	Macrophages are an important cell type for regulation of immunity, and can play key roles in virus pathogenesis. Here we address the effect of infection of primary human macrophages with the related paramyxoviruses Parainfluenza virus 5 (PIV5) and Mumps virus (MuV). Monocyte-derived macrophages infected with PIV5 or MuV showed very little cytopathic effect, but were found to be defective in migration toward a gradient of chemokines such as macrophage colony stimulating factor (MCSF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). For MuV infection, the inhibition of migration required live virus infection, but was not caused by a loss of chemokine receptors on the surface of infected cells. MuV-mediated inhibition of macrophage chemotaxis was through a soluble factor released from infected cells. MuV infection enhanced secretion of TNF-α, but not macrophage inhibitory factor (MIF). Antibody inhibition and add-back experiments demonstrated that TNF-α was both necessary and sufficient for MuV-mediate chemotaxis inhibition. 
24242725	20131119	J._Chem._Ecol.	D016428 	Cellulose digestion in primitive hexapods: Effect of ingested antibiotics on gut microbial populations and gut cellulase levels in the firebrat,Thermobia domestica (Zygentoma, Lepismatidae).	Antibiotic feeding studies were conducted on the firebrat,Thermobia domestica (Zygentoma, Lepismatidae) to determine if the insect's gut cellulases were of insect or microbial origin. Firebrats were fed diets containing either nystatin, metronidazole, streptomycin, tetracycline, or an antibiotic cocktail consisting of all four antibiotics, and then their gut microbial populations and gut cellulase levels were monitored and compared with the gut microbial populations and gut cellulase levels in firebrats feeding on antibiotic-free diets. Each antibiotic significantly reduced the firebrat's gut micro-flora. Nystatin reduced the firebrat's viable gut fungi by 89%. Tetracycline and the antibiotic cocktail reduced the firebrat's viable gut bacteria by 81% and 67%, respectively, and metronidazole, streptomycin, tetracycline, and the antibiotic cocktail reduced the firebrat's total gut flora by 35%, 32%, 55%, and 64%, respectively. Although antibiotics significantly reduced the firebrat's viable and total gut flora, gut cellulase levels in firebrats fed antibiotics were not significantly different from those in firebrats on an antibiotic-free diet. Furthermore, microbial populations in the firebrat's gut decreased significantly over time, even in firebrats feeding on the antibiotic-free diet, without corresponding decreases in gut cellulase levels. Based on this evidence, we conclude that the gut cellulases of firebrats are of insect origin. This conclusion implies that symbiont-independent cellulose digestion is a primitive trait in insects and that symbiont-mediated cellulose digestion is a derived condition.  
23082751	20121023	BMC_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Involvement of bacterial TonB-dependent signaling in the generation of an oligogalacturonide damage-associated molecular pattern from plant cell walls exposed to Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris pectate lyases.	Efficient perception of attacking pathogens is essential for plants. Plant defense is evoked by molecules termed elicitors. Endogenous elicitors or damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) originate from plant materials upon injury or pathogen activity. While there are comparably well-characterized examples for DAMPs, often oligogalacturonides (OGAs), generated by the activity of fungal pathogens, endogenous elicitors evoked by bacterial pathogens have been rarely described. In particular, the signal perception and transduction processes involved in DAMP generation are poorly characterized. A mutant strain of the phytopathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris deficient in exbD2, which encodes a component of its unusual elaborate TonB system, had impaired pectate lyase activity and caused no visible symptoms for defense on the non-host plant pepper (Capsicum annuum). A co-incubation of X. campestris pv. campestris with isolated cell wall material from C. annuum led to the release of compounds which induced an oxidative burst in cell suspension cultures of the non-host plant. Lipopolysaccharides and proteins were ruled out as elicitors by polymyxin B and heat treatment, respectively. After hydrolysis with trifluoroacetic acid and subsequent HPAE chromatography, the elicitor preparation contained galacturonic acid, the monosaccharide constituent of pectate. OGAs were isolated from this crude elicitor preparation by HPAEC and tested for their biological activity. While small OGAs were unable to induce an oxidative burst, the elicitor activity in cell suspension cultures of the non-host plants tobacco and pepper increased with the degree of polymerization (DP). Maximal elicitor activity was observed for DPs exceeding 8. In contrast to the X. campestris pv. campestris wild type B100, the exbD2 mutant was unable to generate elicitor activity from plant cell wall material or from pectin. To our knowledge, this is the second report on a DAMP generated by bacterial features. The generation of the OGA elicitor is embedded in a complex exchange of signals within the framework of the plant-microbe interaction of C. annuum and X. campestris pv. campestris. The bacterial TonB-system is essential for the substrate-induced generation of extracellular pectate lyase activity. This is the first demonstration that a TonB-system is involved in bacterial trans-envelope signaling in the context of a pathogenic interaction with a plant. 
19837831	20091020	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Assessment of the total inflammatory potential of bioaerosols by using a granulocyte assay.	Occupational health symptoms related to bioaerosol exposure have been observed in a variety of working environments. Bioaerosols contain microorganisms and microbial components. The aim of this study was to estimate the total inflammatory potential (TIP) of bioaerosols using an in vitro assay based on granulocyte-like cells. A total of 129 bioaerosol samples were collected in the breathing zone of workers during their daily working routine at 22 biofuel plants. The samples were analyzed by traditional assays for dust, endotoxin, fungal spores, (1-->3)-beta-d-glucan, total number of bacteria, the enzyme N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase (NAGase; primarily originating from fungi), Aspergillus fumigatus, and mesophilic and thermophilic actinomycetes; the samples were also assayed for TIP. In a multilinear regression four factors were significant for the TIP values obtained: endotoxin (P < 0.0001), fungal spores (P < 0.0001), (1-->3)-beta-d-glucan (P = 0.0005), and mesophilic actinomycetes (P = 0.0063). Using this model to estimate TIP values on the basis of microbial composition, the correlation to the measured values was r = 0.91. When TIP values obtained in the granulocyte assay were related to the primary working area, we found that bioaerosol samples from personnel working in straw storage facilities showed high TIP values ( approximately 50 times the TIP of unstimulated controls). In contrast, bioaerosol samples from personnel with work functions in offices or laboratories showed low TIP values ( approximately 5 times the TIP of the unstimulated control). This indicates, as expected, that these areas were less contaminated. In conclusion, the granulocyte assay reacts to multiple contaminants in the environmental samples and can be used to obtain a measurement of TIP. Therefore, potential occupational health effects related to inflammation of the airways in a working environment can be estimated using this assay. 
8576053	19960201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	CWH41 encodes a novel endoplasmic reticulum membrane N-glycoprotein involved in beta 1,6-glucan assembly.	CWH41 encodes a novel type II integral membrane N-glycoprotein located in the endoplasmic reticulum. Disruption of the CWH41 gene leads to a K1 killer toxin-resistant phenotype and a 50% reduction in the cell wall beta 1,6-glucan level. CWH41 also displays strong genetic interactions with KRE1 and KRE6, two genes known to be involved in the beta 1,6-glucan biosynthetic pathway. The cwh41 delta kre6 delta double mutant is nonviable; and the cwh41 delta kre1 delta double mutation results in strong synergistic defects, with a severely slow-growth phenotype, a 75% reduction in beta 1,6-glucan level, and the secretion of a cell wall glucomannoprotein, Cwp1p. These results provide strong genetic evidence indicating that Cwh41p plays a functional role, possibly as a new synthetic component, in the assembly of cell wall beta 1,6-glucan. 
9490064	19980307	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Modes of action on cotton and bacterial cellulose of a homologous endoglucanase-exoglucanase pair from Trichoderma reesei.	The endoglucanase I (EGI) and the cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI) of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei form a homologous pair of cellulolytic enzymes which nevertheless have different modes of action. We show here that the action of CBHI on bacterial microcrystalline cellulose results in efficient solubilisation but only a slow decrease in its degree of polymerisation. In contrast, the action of EGI results in a rapid decrease of the degree of polymerisation but less efficient overall solubilisation of the substrate. CBHI alone was practically inactive toward cotton which has a high initial degree of polymerisation and a complex morphology. EGI rapidly reduced the degree of polymerisation of cotton, and slowly solubilised part of it. Working synergistically, EGI and CBHI solubilised cotton more rapidly and to a greater extent than EGI alone. Our data are consistent with the exoglucanase nature of CBHI and also provide some evidence supporting its processive mode of action. 
24158534	20131026	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Response surface optimization for enhanced production of cellulases with improved functional characteristics by newly isolated Aspergillus niger HN-2.	Fungi isolated from partially decayed wood log samples showing characteristic diversity for spore colour, colony morphology and arrangement of spores were assessed for cellulolytic enzyme production. Isolates showing a cellulolytic index of ≥2.0 were assayed for filter paper (FP) cellulase and β-glucosidase (BGL) production. Molecular characterization confirmed the identity of the selected cellulolytic isolate as a strain of Aspergillus niger (A. niger HN-2). Addition of 2 % (w/v) urea enhanced FP and BGL activity by about 20 and 60 %, respectively. Validation studies conducted at parameters (29 °C, pH 5.4, moisture content 72 % and 66 h) optimized through response surface methodology in a solid-state static tray fermentation resulted in FP, BGL, cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI), endoglucanase (EG), xylanase activity and protein content of 25.3 FPU/g ds, 750 IU/g ds, 13.2 IU/g ds, 190 IU/g ds, 2890 IU/g ds and 0.9 mg/ml, respectively. In comparison, A. niger N402 which is a model organism for growth and development studies, produced significantly lower FP, BGL, CBHI, EG, xylanase activity and protein content of 10.0 FPU/g ds, 100 IU/g ds, 2.3 IU/g ds, 50 IU/g ds, 500 IU/g ds and 0.75 mg/ml, respectively under the same process conditions as were used for A. niger HN-2. Process optimization led to nearly 1.8- and 2.2-fold increase in FP and BGL activity, respectively showing promise for cellulase production by A. niger HN-2 at a higher scale of operation. Zymogram analysis revealed two isoforms each for EG and cellobiohydrolase and three isoforms for BGL. Crude cellulase complex produced by A. niger HN-2 exhibited thermostability under acidic conditions showing potential for use in biofuel industry.  
12391332	20021023	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	Promiscuity in ligand-binding: The three-dimensional structure of a Piromyces carbohydrate-binding module, CBM29-2, in complex with cello- and mannohexaose.	Carbohydrate-protein recognition is central to many biological processes. Enzymes that act on polysaccharide substrates frequently contain noncatalytic domains, "carbohydrate-binding modules" (CBMs), that target the enzyme to the appropriate substrate. CBMs that recognize specific plant structural polysaccharides are often able to accommodate both the variable backbone and the side-chain decorations of heterogeneous ligands. "CBM29" modules, derived from a noncatalytic component of the Piromyces equi cellulase/hemicellulase complex, provide an example of this selective yet flexible recognition. They discriminate strongly against some polysaccharides while remaining relatively promiscuous toward both beta-1,4-linked manno- and cello-oligosaccharides. This feature may reflect preferential, but flexible, targeting toward glucomannans in the plant cell wall. The three-dimensional structure of CBM29-2 and its complexes with cello- and mannohexaose reveal a beta-jelly-roll topology, with an extended binding groove on the concave surface. The orientation of the aromatic residues complements the conformation of the target sugar polymer while accommodation of both manno- and gluco-configured oligo- and polysaccharides is conferred by virtue of the plasticity of the direct interactions from their axial and equatorial 2-hydroxyls, respectively. Such flexible ligand recognition targets the anaerobic fungal complex to a range of different components in the plant cell wall and thus plays a pivotal role in the highly efficient degradation of this composite structure by the microbial eukaryote. 
10894	19760815	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Properties and developmental regulation of an alpha-d-galactosidase from Dictyostelium discoideum.	An alpha-D-galactosidase was detected in cells of the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum, at all stages of development. Its specific activity was highest during early development (interphase), and this accumulation of enzyme appears to require protein synthesis de novo. Its subcellular distribution differs from that of other D. discoideum glycosidases, since most activity was recovered in the soluble fraction. No evidence was obtained for more than one isoenzymic form after subjection of extracts to electrophoresis and various chromatographic procedures. It is excreted from the cell during development, but no evidence was found for an extracellular function for the enzyme. 
7546571	19950101	SAAS_Bull._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013486 D016454 	Biomass degrading enzymes from anaerobic rumen fungi.	Obligately anaerobic fungi are part of the natural microflora of the alimentary tract of many herbivorous mammals. They produce a complete set of polysaccharide hydrolytic enzymes which efficiently degrade plant cell-walls. This article summarizes the present work on biomass degrading enzymes with special emphasis on their cellulases, xylanases, and esterases from both monocentric and polycentric anaerobic fungi. The possibility of the cellulosome or xylanosome-like high molecular mass complexes in the fungi are also discussed. 
7549768	19951001	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 	Location by fluorescence microscopy of glycosidases and a xylanase in the anaerobic gut fungi Caecomyces communis, Neocallimastix frontalis, and Piromyces rhizinflata.	beta-D-Glucosidase, beta-D-fucosidase, beta-D-xylosidase, and beta-D-cellobiopyranosidase activities in Caecomyces communis, Neocallimastix frontalis, and Piromyces rhizinflata, located with fluorescent conjugates, occur throughout the whole thallus as from zoospore germination and disappear before sporulation. beta-D-Galactosidase and alpha-L-arabinopyranosidase activities are low or nonexistent. A xylanase, detected by indirect immunofluorescence, was observed at the surface of the vegetative cells, vesicles, or rhizoids. Cross-reactions prove the existence of analogies in structure among the enzymes of these anaerobic gut fungi. 
10071205	19990310	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Functional analysis of multiple AUG codons in the transcripts of the STA2 glucoamylase gene from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A scanning ribosome will usually initiate translation as soon as it encounters the first favourable AUG codon and only a few eukaryotic transcripts have more complex arrangements. These relatively few complex transcripts are normally characterized by structural features such as multiple AUGs and significant secondary structure. However, the functional relevance of these features has rarely been established. We present here a study of the functional significance of the multiple AUGs in the leader of STA2 transcripts of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and extrapolate, where applicable, these results to a co-regulated gene, MUC1. The STA2 gene (a representative member of the polymorphic STA1-3 gene family), encodes an extracellular glucoamylase, and is evolutionarily linked to, and transcriptionally co-regulated with, the MUC1 gene, which encodes a mucin-like protein essential for pseudohyphal/invasive growth and cell-adhesion in S. cerevisiae. Each of these genes contains a putative upstream ORF, while STA2 has two additional in-frame AUG codons 5' to the major cistron. We show that utilization of the alternative translational start-sites of STA2 results in glucoamylases that differ at their N-termini, which are associated with differences in their localization patterns. Analysis of mutants revealed the presence of a putative secretion-enhancing signal that might prove to be relevant to the alternative targeting mechanism recently uncovered in S. cerevisiae. We show that a short up-stream ORF present in the leaders of STA1-3 and MUC1 is probably bypassed by a process of leaky scanning. 
9251203	19970801	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Characterization of the gene encoding an extracellular laccase of Myceliophthora thermophila and analysis of the recombinant enzyme expressed in Aspergillus oryzae.	A genomic DNA segment encoding an extracellular laccase was isolated from the thermophilic fungus Myceliophthora thermophila, and the nucleotide sequence of this gene was determined. The deduced amino acid sequence of M. thermophila laccase (MtL) shows homology to laccases from diverse fungal genera. A vector containing the M. thermophila laccase coding region, under transcriptional control of an Aspergillus oryzae alpha-amylase gene promoter and terminator, was constructed for heterologous expression in A. oryzae. The recombinant laccase expressed in A. oryzae was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity by anion-exchange chromatography. Amino-terminal sequence data suggests that MtL is synthesized as a preproenzyme. The molecular mass was estimated to be approximately 100 to 140 kDa by gel filtration on Sephacryl S-300 and to be 85 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Carbohydrate analysis revealed that MtL contains 40 to 60% glycosylation. The laccase shows an absorbance spectrum that is typical of blue copper oxidases, with maxima at 276 and 589 nm, and contains 3.9 copper atoms per subunit. With syringaldazine as a substrate, MtL has optimal activity at pH 6.5 and retains nearly 100% of its activity when incubated at 60 degrees C for 20 min. This is the first report of the cloning and heterologous expression of a thermostable laccase. 
6501227	19841201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Genetic system of Schwanniomyces alluvius determined by diad analysis of fusion products.	The genetics of Schwanniomyces alluvius, a yeast that secretes alpha-amylase, were investigated. No mating types have been detected in this haploid organism. Hybrids were produced by protoplast fusion, and these were subjected to diad analysis by using two-spored asci. Results showed that the diploidy introduced by cell fusion persists through successive spore generations. It was concluded that in this organism, sporulation is preceded by the fusion of mitotic products, regardless of the ploidy of the latter. Routine procedures for constructing novel strains would, no doubt, be hampered by this failure of the sporulation process to restore haploidy. Nevertheless, chromosomal instability of hybrids, as indicated both by heterogeneity of fusion products and by a high frequency of morbidity among their segregants, may permit the use of classical genetic techniques for strain construction. 
18952255	20081028	Chemosphere	D016428 D013485 	Antibiotic effect of exogenously applied salicylic acid on in vitro soilborne pathogen, Fusarium oxysporum f.sp.niveum.	Salicylic acid, which is biosynthesized inside plant and is often found and accumulated in soil due to plant debris decaying, is considered as a signaling substance during plant-microbe interactions. It is involved in the cycling of biogeochemistry and related to plant resistance to biotic and abiotic stress. The antibiotic effect of salicylic acid on Fusarium oxysporum f.sp.niveum (FON) was studied to investigate the relationships between the salicylic acid and the fungus in the ecological interaction of plant-microbe. Results showed that the biomass, colony diameter, number of conidium germination and conidium production of FON were decreased by 52.0%, 25.7%, 100% and 100% at concentrations of 800 mg L(-1). However, mycotoxin yield was increased by 233%, pectinase activity raised by 168.0% and cellulase activity increased by 1325% compared to control at higher concentrations. It was concluded that salicylic acid as an allelochemical greatly inhibited FON growth and conidia formation and germination, though stimulated mycotoxin production and activities of hydrolytic enzymes by FON. 
22624316	20120526	Ecology	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Interactions among lignin, cellulose, and nitrogen drive litter chemistry-decay relationships.	Litter decay rates often correlate with the initial ratios of lignin:nitrogen (N) or lignin:cellulose in litter. However, the chemical and microbial mechanisms that give rise to these patterns are still unclear. To identify these mechanisms, we studied the decomposition of a model plant system, Arabidopsis thaliana, in which plants were manipulated to have low levels of lignin, cellulose, or litter N. Nitrogen fertilizer often increases the loss of cellulose, but it suppresses the breakdown of lignin in plant litter. To understand the mechanisms driving these patterns, we decomposed plants in litterbags for one year in control and N-fertilized plots in an Alaskan boreal forest. We found that litter N had a positive effect on total mass loss because it increased the loss of lignin, N, and soluble C. Lignin had a negative effect on rates of total litter mass loss due to decreases in the loss of cellulose and hemicellulose. Cellulose had a positive effect on lignin loss, supporting the concept of a "priming effect" for lignin breakdown. However, the low-cellulose plants also lost more of their original cellulose compared to the other plant types, indicating that decomposers mined the litter for cellulose despite the presence of lignin. Low-lignin litter had higher fungal biomass and N-acetyl glucosaminidase (NAG, a chitinase) activity, suggesting that lignin restricted fungal growth and may have influenced competitive interactions between decomposers. Nitrogen fertilization increased NAG activity in the early stages of decay. In the later stages, N fertilization led to increased cellulase activity on the litters and tended to reduce lignin losses. The transition over time from competition among decomposers to high cellulase activity and suppressed lignin loss under N fertilization suggests that, in N-limited systems, N fertilization may alter decomposer community structure by favoring a shift toward cellulose- and mineral-N users. 
1611560	19920401	Can._J._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 	Cytosolic and membrane-bound chitinases of two mucoraceous fungi: a comparative study.	Chitinases isolated from membrane and cytosolic fractions of two mucoraceous fungi, Choanephora cucurbitarum and Phascolomyces articulosus, were investigated. The membrane-bound chitinase was isolated by Bio-Gel P-100 and DEAE Bio-Gel A chromatographic techniques. On SDS-PAGE the chitinase from both fungi migrated as a single band of M(r) 66 kDa. The cytosolic chitinase from the mycelial extracts of these fungi was separated by heat treatment, ammonium sulphate precipitation, and by affinity chromatography with regenerated chitin. SDS-PAGE showed two bands for each fungus with M(r) of 69.5 and 55 kDa in C. cucurbitarum and M(r) 69.5 and 53 kDa in Ph. articulosus. Chitinases, membrane bound or cytosolic, hydrolyzed regenerated chitin, colloidal chitin, glycol chitin, N,N'-diacetylchitobiose, and N,N',N"-triacetylchitotriose. Heavy metals, inhibitors, and N-acetylglucosamine inhibited chitinase activity, whereas trypsin and an acid protease enhanced its activity. Chitinase preparations showed lysozyme activity that was inhibited by histamine but not by N-acetylglucosamine. There was no N-acetylglucosamanidase activity, but beta-1,3 glucanase activity was found in cytosolic preparations only. Despite slight differences in their molecular mass, both the membrane-bound and cytosolic chitinases showed similarities in substrate utilization, response to inhibitors, and activation by trypsin and acid protease; pH and temperature optima also were similar. 
23564673	20130409	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Fungal biodegradation of pomegranate ellagitannins.	Ellagitannins (ETs) are phytochemicals derived from secondary metabolism associated to defense system, with complex chemical structures, which have high participation during all stages of protection against microbial infection. In this study, we report the fungal biodegradation of a bioactive ET, named punicaline which was recovered and purified from pomegranate peels and used as carbon source in solid-state culture (SSC) using polyurethane as solid support. SSC was kinetically monitored during 36 h of incubation time. ETs and glycosides consumption were spectrophotometrically determined. Ellagic acid (EA) accumulation was analyzed by HPLC. Several enzymatic activities were assayed (cellulase, xylanase, β-glucosydase, polyphenoloxidase, tannase, and ET hydrolyzing activities). The consumption levels of ETs and glycosides were 66 and 40%, while EA accumulation reached 42.02 mg g(-1). A differential pattern of enzymatic activities was found; evidence from our studies suggests that the ET hydrolyzing activity is directly associated to EA accumulation, and production of this enzyme may represent the most critical step to successfully develop a bioprocess for production of an important bioactive compound, the EA. 
12949620	20030902	Cell._Mol._Biol._Lett.	D016428 D016454 	Plant chitinases--regulation and function.	The aim of this review is to present the current state of knowledge on plant chitinases and their regulation and function. Chitinases are up-regulated by a variety of stress conditions, both biotic and abiotic, and by such phytohormones as ethylene, jasmonic acid, and salicylic acid. Like other PR proteins, chitinases play a role in plant resistance against distinct pathogens. Moreover, by reducing the defence reaction of the plant, chitinases allow symbiotic interaction with nitrogen-fixing bacteria or mycorrhizal fungi. However, recent investigations have shown that these enzymes are also involved in numerous physiological events. The involvement of chitinases in development and growth processes is also described. 
8306984	19940115	Eur._J._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	The role of trehalose synthesis for the acquisition of thermotolerance in yeast. I. Genetic evidence that trehalose is a thermoprotectant.	In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, accumulation of the non-reducing disaccharide trehalose is triggered by various stimuli that activate the heat-schock response. Several studies have shown a close correlation between trehalose levels and tolerance to heat stress, suggesting that trehalose may be a protectant which contributes to thermotolerance. In this study, we have examined mutants defective in genes coding for key enzymes involved in trehalose metabolism with respect to the heat-induced and stationary-phase-induced accumulation of trehalose and the acquisition of thermotolerance. Inactivation of either TPS1 or TPS2, encoding subunits of the trehalose-6-phosphate synthase/phosphatase complex, caused an inability to accumulate trehalose upon a mild heat-shock or upon initiation of the stationary phase and significantly reduced the levels of heat-induced and stationary-phase-induced thermotolerance. Deletion of NTH1, the gene coding for the neutral trehalase, resulted in a defect in trehalose mobilization during recovery from a heat shock which was paralleled by an abnormally slow decrease of thermotolerance. Our results provide strong genetic evidence that heat-induced synthesis of trehalose is an important factor for thermotolerance induction. In an accompanying study [Hottiger, T., De Virgilio, C., Hall, M. N., Boller, T. & Wiemken, A. (1993) Eur. J. Biochem. 219, 187-193], we present evidence that the function of heat-induced trehalose accumulation may be to increase the thermal stability of proteins. 
978839	19760801	Jpn._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Inhibition of rat dental caries by dextranase from a strain of Spicaria violacea.	Dextranase AD17 obtained from a culture liquor of a strain of Spicaria violacea was assessed for its ability to inhibit the development of dental caries in conventional Sprague-Dawley rats which had been infected with one of the Streptococcus mutans strains. MT6R (serotype c), OMZ 176R (d), or MT-703R (e). These experiments showed that caries was significantly inhibited when rats were given cariogenic diets No. 2000 and drinking water containing AD17 at a concentration of 10 units/g, as compared to control rats not given dextranase. The inhibitory effects of AD17 were more prominent in smooth surface caries than in total caries. AD17 had a tendency to retard both the establishment of inoculated S. mutans and plaque deposition on tooth surfaces. However, S. mutans could be implanted in the rat oral cavity after repeated inoculation of the bacteria, even in the presence of AD17. These results suggest that the anticaries activity of AD17 is due to not only inhibition of adherence of S. mutans cells on tooth surfaces but also to physiochemical changes of dental plaque formed under the enzymatic action of AD17. Preliminary histophatological examination showed that AD17 had no significant toxicity in rats. 
20417399	20100427	Food_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Genetic and phenotypic diversity of autochthonous cider yeasts in a cellar from Asturias.	This paper analyses yeast diversity and dynamics during the production of Asturian cider. Yeasts were isolated from apple juice and at different stages of fermentation in a cellar in Villaviciosa during two Asturian cider-apple harvests. The species identified by ITS-RFLP corresponded to Hanseniaspora valbyensis, Hanseniaspora uvarum, Metschnikowia pulcherrima, Pichia guilliermondii, Candida parapsilosis, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Saccharomyces bayanus/Saccharomyces pastorianus/Saccharomyces kudriavzevii/Saccharomyces mikatae. The species C. parapsilosis is reported here for the first time in cider. The analysis of Saccharomyces mtDNA patterns showed great diversity, sequential substitution and the presence of a small number of yeast patterns (up to 8), present in both harvests. Killer (patterns nos. 22' and 47), sensitive (patterns nos. 12, 15, 33 and 61) and neutral phenotypes were found among the S. cerevisiae isolates. The detection of beta-glucosidase activity, with arbutin as the sole carbon source, allowed two S. cerevisiae strains (patterns nos. 3' and 19') to be differentiated by means of this enzymatic activity. Yeast strains producing the killer toxin or with beta-glucosidase activity are reported for the first time in autochthonous cider yeasts. 
15859466	20050430	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Studies of hydrolytic activity of enzyme preparations of Penicillium and Trychoderma fungi].	Enzyme preparations were isolated from the culture liquid of five mutant strains of the cellulase producer Penicillium verruculosum. The hydrolytic activities of these preparations against unbleached eucalypt cellulose was compared to that of commercial preparations of Trichoderma reesei (T. longibrachiatum). In the majority of cases, P. verruculosum enzymes provided higher yields of reducing sugars (RSs) and glucose. A correlation was found between the yield of RSs and the avicelase activity of the preparations in the reaction mixture. 
15182839	20040609	Bioresour._Technol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Induction, production, repression, and de-repression of exoglucanase synthesis in Aspergillus niger.	The influence of carbon and nitrogen sources on the production of cellulases was investigated. The enzyme production was variable according to the carbon source. Levels of beta-cellobiohydrolase (CBH) were minimal in the presence of even low concentrations of glucose. Enzyme production was stimulated by other carbohydrates. The enzyme is subject to carbon source control by easily metabolizable sugars. Wheat bran and cellulose were the most effective promoters of beta-cellobiohydrolase and filter paperase (FPase) activities respectively, followed by rice bran. Exogenously supplied glucose inhibited the synthesis of the enzyme in cultures of A. niger growing on wheat bran. In defined medium with cellobiose, the cellobiohydrolase titres were 2- to 110-fold higher with cells growing on monomeric sugars and 1.5 times higher than cells growing on other disaccharides. It appeared that synthesis of beta-cellobiohydrolase varied under an induction mechanism, and a repression mechanism which changed the rate of synthesis of beta-cellobiohydrolase and FPase in induced over non-induced cultures. In this organism, substantial synthesis of beta-cellobiohydrolase can be induced by cellobiose, cellodextrin, cellulose or cellulose and hemi-cellulose containing substrates which showed low volumetric substrate uptake rate. The organism required limiting concentration of carbon, nitrogen or phosphorous for production of beta-cellobiohydrolase and FPase. During growth of A. niger on wheat bran, maximum volumetric productivities (Qp) of beta-cellobiohydrolase and FPase were 39.6 and 32.5 IU/lh and were significantly higher than the values reported for some other potent fungi and bacteria. The addition of actinomycin D (a repressor of transcription) and cycloheximide, (a repressor of translation) completely repressed CBH/FPase biosynthesis, suggested that the regulation of CBH synthesis in this organism occurs at both transcriptional and translational level. Thermodynamic studies revealed that the culture exerted protection against thermal inactivation when exposed to different fermentation temperatures. 
20169200	20100220	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Evolution and ecophysiology of the industrial producer Hypocrea jecorina (Anamorph Trichoderma reesei) and a new sympatric agamospecies related to it.	Trichoderma reesei, a mitosporic green mould, was recognized during the WW II based on a single isolate from the Solomon Islands and since then used in industry for production of cellulases. It is believed to be an anamorph (asexual stage) of the common pantropical ascomycete Hypocrea jecorina. We combined molecular evolutionary analysis and multiple methods of phenotype profiling in order to reveal the genetic relationship of T. reesei to H. jecorina. The resulting data show that the isolates which were previously identified as H. jecorina by means of morphophysiology and ITS1 and 2 (rRNA gene cluster) barcode in fact comprise several species: i) H. jecorina/T. reesei sensu stricto which contains most of the teleomorphs (sexual stages) found on dead wood and the wild-type strain of T. reesei QM 6a; ii) T. parareesei nom. prov., which contains all strains isolated as anamorphs from soil; iii) and two other hypothetical new species for which only one or two isolates are available. In silico tests for recombination and in vitro mating experiments revealed a history of sexual reproduction for H. jecorina and confirmed clonality for T. parareesei nom. prov. Isolates of both species were consistently found worldwide in pantropical climatic zone. Ecophysiological comparison of H. jecorina and T. parareesei nom. prov. revealed striking differences in carbon source utilization, conidiation intensity, photosensitivity and mycoparasitism, thus suggesting adaptation to different ecological niches with the high opportunistic potential for T. parareesei nom. prov. Our data prove that T. reesei belongs to a holomorph H. jecorina and displays a history of worldwide gene flow. We also show that its nearest genetic neighbour--T. parareesei nom. prov., is a cryptic phylogenetic agamospecies which inhabits the same biogeographic zone. These two species thus provide a so far rare example of sympatric speciation within saprotrophic fungi, with divergent ecophysiological adaptations and reproductive strategies. 
12513977	20030107	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	ACEI of Trichoderma reesei is a repressor of cellulase and xylanase expression.	We characterized the effect of deletion of the Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina) ace1 gene encoding the novel cellulase regulator ACEI that was isolated based on its ability to bind to and activate in vivo in Saccharomyces cerevisiae the promoter of the main cellulase gene, cbh1. Deletion of ace1 resulted in an increase in the expression of all the main cellulase genes and two xylanase genes in sophorose- and cellulose-induced cultures, indicating that ACEI acts as a repressor of cellulase and xylanase expression. Growth of the strain with a deletion of the ace1 gene on different carbon sources was analyzed. On cellulose-based medium, on which cellulases are needed for growth, the Deltaace1 strain grew better than the host strain due to the increased cellulase production. On culture media containing sorbitol as the sole carbon source, the growth of the strain with a deletion of the ace1 gene was severely impaired, suggesting that ACEI regulates expression of other genes in addition to cellulase and xylanase genes. A strain with a deletion of the ace1 gene and with a deletion of the ace2 gene coding for the cellulase and xylanase activator ACEII expressed cellulases and xylanases similar to the Deltaace1 strain, indicating that yet another activator regulating cellulase and xylanase promoters was present. 
11762192	20020105	DNA_Seq.	D016428 D013485 	xln23 from Streptomyces chattanoogensis UAH23 encodes a putative enzyme with separate xylanase and arabinofuranosidase catalytic domains.	The xylanase gene xysA of Streptomyces halstedii JM8 was used to isolate a DNA fragment from a gene library of Pstl-digested chromosomal DNA of the lignocellulolytic actinomycete Streptomyces chattanoogensis CECT-3336. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed a gene (xln23) encoding a bifunctional multimodular enzyme bearing two independent xylanase and alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase domains separated by a Ser/Gly-rich linker. The N terminus of the predicted protein showed high homology to family F xylanases. The C terminus was homologous to amino acid sequences found in enzymes included in the glycosyl hydrolase family 62 and, in particular, to those of alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase AbsB from Streptomyces lividans. PCR and RT-PCR experiments showed that the nucleotide sequences corresponding to each domain are arranged as expected on the chromosomal DNA and that they are cotranscribed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of xylanase and arabinofuranosidase domains in a same open reading frame. 
6403443	19830101	Horm._Metab._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of fasting on islet lysosomal enzyme activities and the in vivo insulin response to different secretagogues.	The effect of a 24 hr starvation period on islet lysosomal enzyme activities and the in vivo insulin response to glucose, glibenclamide and L-isopropyl-noradrenaline (L-IPNA) was studied in mice. It was observed that fasting induced a significant decrease of islet acid amyloglucosidase activity, whereas the activities of acid phosphatase, beta-N-acetyl-glucosaminidase, and beta-glucuronidase in islet tissue were unaffected by the fasting period studied. Starvation markedly reduced the acute insulin response to a maximal dose of glucose or glibenclamide. However, the insulin response to a maximal dose of L-IPNA was of similar magnitude in both fed and fasted animals. Pretreatment of fasted mice with purified fungal acid amyloglucosidase could restore the impaired insulin response to glucose to the normal level seen in fed mice. It is suggested that islet acid amyloglucosidase activity is of importance for glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, and that reduced levels of islet amyloglucosidase may contribute to the impairment of glucose-induced insulin release seen after fasting. 
7487028	19950801	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	A xylan hydrolase gene cluster in Prevotella ruminicola B(1)4: sequence relationships, synergistic interactions, and oxygen sensitivity of a novel enzyme with exoxylanase and beta-(1,4)-xylosidase activities.	Two genes concerned with xylan degradation were found to be closely linked in the ruminal anaerobe Prevotella ruminicola B(1)4, being separated by an intergenic region of 75 nucleotides. xynA is shown to encode a family F endoxylanase of 369 amino acids, including a putative amino-terminal signal peptide. xynB encodes an enzyme of 319 amino acids, with no obvious signal peptide, that shows 68% amino acid identity with the xsa product of Bacteroides ovatus and 31% amino acid identity with a beta-xylosidase from Clostridium stercorarium; together, these three enzymes define a new family of beta-(1,4)-glycosidases. The activity of the cloned P. ruminicola xynB gene product, but not that of the xynA gene product, shows considerable sensitivity to oxygen. Studied under anaerobic conditions, the XynB enzyme was found to act as an exoxylanase, releasing xylose from substrates including xylobiose, xylopentaose, and birch wood xylan, but was relatively inactive against oat spelt xylan. A high degree of synergy (up to 10-fold stimulation) was found with respect to the release of reducing sugars from oat spelt xylan when XynB was combined with the XynA endoxylanase from P. ruminicola B(1)4 or with endoxylanases from the cellulolytic rumen anaerobe Ruminococcus flavefaciens 17. Pretreatment with a fungal arabinofuranosidase also stimulated reducing-sugar release from xylans by XynB. In P. ruminicola the XynA and XynB enzymes may act sequentially in the breakdown of xylan. 
15128569	20040507	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	In vivo study of trichoderma-pathogen-plant interactions, using constitutive and inducible green fluorescent protein reporter systems.	Plant tissue colonization by Trichoderma atroviride plays a critical role in the reduction of diseases caused by phytopathogenic fungi, but this process has not been thoroughly studied in situ. We monitored in situ interactions between gfp-tagged biocontrol strains of T. atroviride and soilborne plant pathogens that were grown in cocultures and on cucumber seeds by confocal scanning laser microscopy and fluorescence stereomicroscopy. Spores of T. atroviride adhered to Pythium ultimum mycelia in coculture experiments. In mycoparasitic interactions of T. atroviride with P. ultimum or Rhizoctonia solani, the mycoparasitic hyphae grew alongside the pathogen mycelia, and this was followed by coiling and formation of specialized structures similar to hooks, appressoria, and papillae. The morphological changes observed depended on the pathogen tested. Branching of T. atroviride mycelium appeared to be an active response to the presence of the pathogenic host. Mycoparasitism of P. ultimum by T. atroviride occurred on cucumber seed surfaces while the seeds were germinating. The interaction of these fungi on the cucumber seeds was similar to the interaction observed in coculture experiments. Green fluorescent protein expression under the control of host-inducible promoters was also studied. The induction of specific Trichoderma genes was monitored visually in cocultures, on plant surfaces, and in soil in the presence of colloidal chitin or Rhizoctonia by confocal microscopy and fluorescence stereomicroscopy. These tools allowed initiation of the mycoparasitic gene expression cascade to be monitored in vivo. 
23269217	20121228	Biocontrol_Sci	D016428 D013485 	In vitro and in vivo biocontrol of soil-borne phytopathogenic fungi by certain bioagents and their possible mode of action.	The study aimed to investigate new wide-spectrum biological control agents against soil-borne fungal plant pathogens. Screening of 336 fungal strains and 256 bacterial strains was carried out in vitro to select the most promising isolates for controlling destructive pathogens of greenhouse-vegetables. In dual cultures, Bacillus subtilis JF419701 and Trichoderma harzianum JF419706  (teleomorph: Hypocrea lixii)  inhibited the growth of Alternaria alternata, Fusarium oxysporum, Exserohilum rostratum, Macrophomina phaseolina, Pythium ultimum and Rhizoctonia solani. Microscopic examination showed the ability of T. harzianum JF419706 to parasitize the hyphae of all pathogens and kill them. T. harzianum produced the cell wall degrading enzymes; α-1-3-glucanase  (0.83 U/ml) , β-1-3-glucanase  (0.89 U/ml)  and chitinase  (0.86 U/ml)  in high concentrations. However, B. subtilis produced proteases in very high concentrations  (9341.64 U/ml) . The culture filtrate of T. harzianum did not show any antifungal effect. The cell free extract of B. subtilis, containing cyano-compounds, suppressed the growth of all phytopathogens, especially M. phaseolina. Results proved the efficacy of the two biological control agents to control the common soil pathogens either singly or in combination. We recommend further field experiments to study either the synergistic or antagonistic interactions between them under natural conditions. 
22804753	20120719	Indoor_Air	D016428 D013486 	Airborne fungal cell fragments in homes in relation to total fungal biomass.	Fungal exposure may induce respiratory symptoms. The causative agents are compounds in the fungal cell wall. Fragments of microbes may be present in air samples but are not measurable using conventional spore counting or by the determination of viable organisms. This study assesses the proportion of fungal cell biomass and endotoxin in different particle size fractions in air samples from homes. Air samples were collected from 15 homes using a cyclone sampler, collecting particles in three aerodynamic size fractions: <1.0, 1.0-1.8, and >1.8 μm. N-Acetylhexosaminidase (NAHA) was determined as a marker of fungal cell biomass. Endotoxin was determined using the Limulus amebocyte lysate method. NAHA and endotoxin in the size range <1.0 μm comprised up to 63% (mean 22.7%) and 96.3% (mean 22.6%) of the total concentrations, respectively. There were significant relationships between the amounts of NAHA and endotoxin in the total amount and in the size fraction >1.8 μm but not in the smaller fractions. The results demonstrate significant amounts of fungal cell biomass and endotoxin in particles <1.0 μm. Homes with reported mold damage had a lower concentration of NAHA in particles <1.0 μm than homes without mold damage. To assess airborne exposure for diagnostic and preventive purposes, measurement techniques that include this fraction should be considered. 
9347357	19970801	Histochem._J.	D016428 	Binding of antibiotics to glycoproteins of the vitelline and fertilization envelopes of cherry salmon eggs.	The binding of antibiotics (gentamicin, oleandomycin and chloramphenicol) to vitelline and fertilization envelopes and their extracts was investigated by immunohistochemical and immunocytochemical techniques and immunoblot analysis using mature and artificially activated eggs of the fish Oncorhynchus masou. Binding of antibiotics was detected in the vitelline and fertilization envelope outermost layers, the fertilization envelope inner surface and cortical alveolus exudates, with differences in immunoreactive intensity and deposition. The fertilization envelope outermost layer had the capacity to bind much greater amounts of the antibiotics than the vitelline envelope outermost layer. The greater capacity was caused by the deposition of cortical alveolus exudates, which were known to be responsible for functional roles of protection against bacteria, fungi and noxious materials. Treatment of the vitelline and fertilization envelopes with neuraminidase markedly reduced the binding of gentamicin and chloramphenicol but slightly increased that of oleandomycin; binding of the latter to the vitelline and fertilization envelope outermost layers was considerably reduced after treatment with alpha-fucosidase. Treatment of the two envelopes with alpha-mannosidase, beta-galactosidase or beta-D-glucosaminidase did not cause any alteration in immunoreactive intensity or number of immunoreactive deposits. Immunoblot analysis of the vitelline or fertilization envelope extracts indicated that many of the antibiotic-binding substances were glycoproteins, and several major bands were bound by all three antibiotics. These results suggest that the vitelline or fertilization envelopes may have the ability to protect the egg itself, or the embryo, respectively, by trapping antibiotics, and the trapping may be related to the presence of carbohydrate moieties, such as sialyl or fucosyl residues. 
8277260	19931101	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 	Growth and product formation in chemostat and recycling cultures by Aspergillus niger N402 and a glucoamylase overproducing transformant, provided with multiple copies of the glaA gene.	Continuous and recycling cultures were carried out with Aspergillus niger N402 wild-type and a glucoamylase overproducing transformant to investigate growth and product formation characteristics. In shake flask cultures, the amount of glucoamylase produced by the transformant was about five times more than by the wild-type strain. In contrast with these results, a twofold overproduction was found in glucose-limited continuous cultures, while no overproduction was found under maltodextrin-limitation. Two regions of specific growth rates could be distinguished, one at specific growth rates lower (domain I) and one at specific growth rates higher than 0.12 h-1 (domain II). In domain I changes in mycelium morphology and conidia formation were observed. It has been concluded that maintenance requirements are dependent on the specific growth rate over the whole range of measured growth rates. The deviation in linearity in the linear equation of substrate utilization, caused by this phenomenon, should be considered when continuous cultures with filamentous fungi are performed. In recycling cultures, xylose as limiting carbon source repressed glucoamylase production very strongly. Under maltodextrin-limitation a fivefold overproduction was found. After about 150 h , the total amount of glucoamylase produced was still increasing, while total amount of product, measured as carbon, remained constant. After this time no increase in the amount of biomass formed was observed. These results suggest autolysis and cryptic growth taking place in a recycling fermenter and cell death rate equalling growth rate. 
21148875	20101215	Mycologia	D016428 	Expression of a novel chitinase by the fungal endophyte in Poa ampla.	Many wild and cultivated cool-season grass species are naturally infected with fungal endophytes of the genera Neotyphodium and Epichloë. These associations generally are considered mutualistic with the plants benefiting from reduced herbivory and the fungi benefiting from nutrients supplied by the plants. The fungi secrete proteins that might have a role in the interspecies symbiosis. In the interaction between Poa ampla Merr. and the endophyte Neotyphodium sp., a fungal chitinase was detected in the apoplastic protein fraction. The chitinase was also the major protein secreted in culture. Sequence analysis of the chitinase revealed it has a low level of amino acid sequence identity to other fungal chitinases and one of the conserved active site residues is altered. DNA gel-blot analysis indicated the chitinase was encoded by a single gene. Expression of similar chitinases also was detected in endophyte-infected tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) and Chewings fescue (Festuca rubra L. subsp. fallax [Thuill] Nyman). This is the first report of an endophyte chitinase expressed in the infected host grass. As a secreted hydrolytic enzyme, the chitinase might have roles in the nutrition, growth or defense of the endophyte. 
17159214	20061213	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Degradation of cellulose and hemicelluloses by the brown rot fungus Piptoporus betulinus--production of extracellular enzymes and characterization of the major cellulases.	Piptoporus betulinus is a common wood-rotting fungus parasitic for birch (Betula species). It is able to cause fast mass loss of birch wood or other lignocellulose substrates. When grown on wheat straw, P. betulinus caused 65% loss of dry mass within 98 days, and it produced endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (EG), endo-1,4-beta-xylanase, endo-1,4-beta-mannanase, 1,4-beta-glucosidase (BG), 1,4-beta-xylosidase, 1,4-beta-mannosidase and cellobiohydrolase activities. The fungus was not able to efficiently degrade crystalline cellulose. The major glycosyl hydrolases, endoglucanase EG1 and beta-glucosidase BG1, were purified. EG1 was a protein of 62 kDa with a pI of 2.6-2.8. It cleaved cellulose internally, produced cellobiose and glucose from cellulose and cellooligosaccharides, and also showed beta-xylosidase and endoxylanase activities. The K(m) for carboxymethylcellulose was 3.5 g l(-1), with the highest activity at pH 3.5 and 70 degrees C. BG1 was a protein of 36 kDa with a pI around 2.6. It was able to produce glucose from cellobiose and cellooligosaccharides, but also produced galactose, mannose and xylose from the respective oligosaccharides and showed some cellobiohydrolase activity. The K(m) for p-nitrophenyl-1,4-beta-glucoside was 1.8 mM, with the highest activity at pH 4 and 60 degrees C, and the enzyme was competitively inhibited by glucose (K(i)=5.8 mM). The fungus produced mainly beta-glucosidase and beta-mannosidase activity in its fruit bodies, while higher activities of endoglucanase, endoxylanase and beta-xylosidase were found in fungus-colonized wood. 
22119096	20111129	Fitoterapia	D016428 D013485 	Anti-acetylcholinesterase, anti-α-glucosidase, anti-leishmanial and anti-fungal activities of chemical constituents of Beilschmiedia species.	Phytochemical investigation of Beilschmiedia alloiophylla has resulted in the isolation of one new alkaloid, 2-hydroxy-9-methoxyaporphine (1), and ten known natural products, laurotetanine (2), liriodenine (3), boldine (4), secoboldine (5), isoboldine (6), asimilobine (7), oreobeiline (8), 6-epioreobeiline (9), β-amyrone (10), and (S)-3-methoxynordomesticine (11). Chemical studies on the bark of B. kunstleri afforded compounds 2 and 4 along with one bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid, N-dimethylphyllocryptine (12). Structures of compounds 1-12 were elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic methods. All of these isolates were evaluated for their anti-acetylcholinesterase (AChE), anti-α-glucosidase, anti-leishmanial and anti-fungal activities. Compounds 1-12 exhibited strong to moderate bioactivities in aforementioned bioassays. 
20618706	20100713	Mol._Plant_Pathol.	D016428 D013485 	Chitin synthase-deficient mutant of Fusarium oxysporum elicits tomato plant defence response and protects against wild-type infection.	A mutant of the root pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici, deficient in class V chitin synthase, has been shown previously to be nonvirulent. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that the cause of its avirulence could be the elicitation of the induced plant defence response, leading to the restriction of fungal infection. Co-inoculation of tomato plants with the wild-type strain and the DeltachsV mutant resulted in a significant reduction in symptom development, supporting a protective mechanism exerted by the mutant. The ability of the mutant to penetrate and colonize plant tissues was determined by scanning and transmission electron microscopy, as well as fluorescence microscopy using green fluorescent protein- or cherry fluorescent protein-labelled fungal strains. The extent of wild-type strain colonization in co-inoculated plants decreased steadily throughout the infection process, as shown by the quantification of fungal biomass using real-time polymerase chain reaction. The hypothesis that defence responses are activated by the DeltachsV mutant was confirmed by the analysis of plant pathogenesis-related genes using real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Tomato plants inoculated with the DeltachsV mutant showed a three fold increase in endochitinase activity in comparison with wild-type inoculated plants. Taken together, these results suggest that the perturbation of fungal cell wall biosynthesis results in elicitation of the plant defence response during the infection process. 
2676608	19890925	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae of a gene encoding an alpha-amylase from Schwanniomyces castellii.	A gene (SWA1) encoding an alpha-amylase activity from Schwanniomyces castellii has been cloned and expressed, via yeast cloning vector YEp13, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. By using a riboprobe which is internal to the SWA1 gene, a 1.55 kb transcript was detected in the poly(A)+ RNA from both Sw. castellii and a S. cerevisiae clone harboring the SWA1 gene. This transcript should, therefore, correspond to the SWA1 gene. In addition, the DNA strand determining the alpha-amylase activity has been defined. Transcription of the SWA1 gene appears to be highly regulated in Sw. castellii, whereas it is constitutive in the S. cerevisiae harboring this gene. 
8724141	19960401	Glycobiology	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Retention of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell wall proteins through a phosphodiester-linked beta-1,3-/beta-1,6-glucan heteropolymer.	Yeast cell wall proteins, including Cwp1p and alpha-agglutinin, could be released by treating the cell wall with either beta-1,3-or beta-1,6-glucanases, indicating that both polymers are involved in anchoring cell wall proteins. It was shown immunologically that both beta-1,3- and beta-1,6-glucan were linked to yeast cell wall proteins, including Cwp1p and alpha-agglutinin. It was further shown that beta-1,3-glucan was linked to the wall protein through a beta-1,6-glucan moiety. The beta-1,6-glucan moiety could be removed from Cwp1p and other cell wall proteins by cleaving phosphodiester bridges either enzymatically using phosphodiesterases or chemically using ice-cold aqueous hydrofluoric acid. These observations are consistent with the notion that cell wall proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae are linked to a beta-1,3-/beta-1,6-glucan heteropolymer through a phosphodiester linkage and that this polymer is responsible for anchoring cell wall proteins. It is proposed that this polymer is identical to the alkali-soluble beta-1,3-/beta-1,6-glucan heteropolymer characterized by Fleet and Manners (1976, 1977). 
15950308	20050614	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Surface character of pulp fibres studied using endoglucanases.	The endoglucanase Cel5A from Trichoderma reesei and an endoglucanase from Aspergillus sp. (Novozym 476 from Novozyme A/S) were evaluated as probes for the surface properties of soft- and hardwood chemical pulp fibres. The hydrolysis time curves were in accordance with a two-phase degradation model described by a biexponential function. The kinetic parameters corresponding to the amount of fast and slow degraded parts of the substrate correlated to tensile index, relative bonded area and z-strength of the paper. All paper properties showing a correlation with enzyme kinetic parameters were related to fibre-fibre interactions. Fluorescence labelling of the reducing end groups in pulp fibres followed by enzyme treatment indicated that the fast substrate class corresponds to the population of "loose" cellulose chain ends not tightly associated with the bulk cellulose. The correlation between the parameters of enzyme kinetics and mechanical properties of the paper produced from the corresponding pulp found in this study should allow a rapid evaluation of the raw fibre material used in paper making process. 
23149715	20121115	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Extracellular enzymes of the white-rot fungus Fomes fomentarius and purification of 1,4-β-glucosidase.	Production of the lignocellulose-degrading enzymes endo-1,4-β-glucanase, 1,4-β-glucosidase, cellobiohydrolase, endo-1,4-β-xylanase, 1,4-β-xylosidase, Mn peroxidase, and laccase was characterized in a common wood-rotting fungus Fomes fomentarius, a species able to efficiently decompose dead wood, and compared to the production in eight other fungal species. The main aim of this study was to characterize the 1,4-β-glucosidase produced by F. fomentarius that was produced in high quantities in liquid stationary culture (25.9 U ml(-1)), at least threefold compared to other saprotrophic basidiomycetes, such as Rhodocollybia butyracea, Hypholoma fasciculare, Irpex lacteus, Fomitopsis pinicola, Pleurotus ostreatus, Piptoporus betulinus, and Gymnopus sp. (between 0.7 and 7.9 U ml(-1)). The 1,4-β-glucosidase enzyme was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity by both anion-exchange and size-exclusion chromatography. A single 1,4-β-glucosidase was found to have an apparent molecular mass of 58 kDa and a pI of 6.7. The enzyme exhibited high thermotolerance with an optimum temperature of 60 °C. Maximal activity was found in the pH range of 4.5-5.0, and K (M) and V (max) values were 62 μM and 15.8 μmol min(-1) l(-1), respectively, when p-nitrophenylglucoside was used as a substrate. The enzyme was competitively inhibited by glucose with a K (i) of 3.37 mM. The enzyme also acted on p-nitrophenylxyloside, p-nitrophenylcellobioside, p-nitrophenylgalactoside, and p-nitrophenylmannoside with optimal pH values of 6.0, 3.5, 5.0, and 4.0-6.0, respectively. The combination of relatively low molecular mass and low K (M) value make the 1,4-β-glucosidase a promising enzyme for biotechnological applications. 
18314348	20080304	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization and cloning of chitin deacetylases from Rhizopus circinans.	Chitin deacetylase catalyzes hydrolysis of the acetamido groups of N-acetylglucosamine of chitin in fungal cell walls. Here a chitin deacetylase secreted by Rhizopus circinans was purified to homogeneity and partially characterized. The enzyme exhibits an apparent molecular weight of approximately 75kDa. At 37 degrees C it shows optimal activity at pH 5.5-6. Its pH stability and thermal stability are good. Mn(2+) and Mg(2+) slightly enhance the activity of the enzyme and Cu(2+) strongly inhibits it. An R. circinans cDNA library was constructed and screened with a homologous probe synthesized by RT-PCR or with synthetic primers derived from the N-terminal amino-acid sequence of the native purified chitin deacetylase. Three chitin deacetylase cDNAs (RC, D2, and I3/2) were isolated from the cDNA library and sequenced. These cDNAs exhibit features characteristic of chitin deacetylase sequences: the presence of a polysaccharide deacetylase domain, a metal-binding triad, the conserved catalytic residues, and high homology with various chitin deacetylase genes. The cDNAs were cloned in a Pichia pastoris expression system and produced as polyhistidine-tagged proteins. Only one recombinant enzyme (called RC) was active under the tested conditions. It was purified to homogeneity in a single step and further characterized. The protein showed an apparent molecular mass of approximately 75kDa and, like the native enzyme, showed optimal activity at pH 5.5-6 at 37 degrees C. It was strongly inhibited by Cu(2+). The isolation of several chitin deacetylase cDNAs from the same microorganism is discussed. 
10615680	20000101	Rev._Argent._Microbiol.	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Interaction between coprophilous fungi and its impact on its natural substrate degradation].	Six species of coprophilous fungi were isolated from cow dung. Each species, or a combination of two or more, were inoculated on dung and their capacity of degradation of the substrate was measured as dry weight loss, endoglucanase activity and loss of cellulose. Degradation of CMC agar medium was also established. As a result of their interespecific relationship, a minor degradative capacity was observed when more than one species were cultured except for one combination. 
23193603	20121130	Biopolymers	D016428 D013485 	A novel chitin-binding protein from Moringa oleifera seed with potential for plant disease control.	A thermostable chitin-binding protein (14.3 kDa) with antifungal activity was isolated from Moringa oleifera seeds by affinity chromatography on chitin followed by ion exchange chromatography. NH(2-) CPAIQRCCQQLRNIQPPCRCCQ (Mo-CBP3) is a glycoprotein with 2.5% sugar, pI 10.8, without hemagglutination, chitinase or beta-glucanase activities. Mo-CBP3 possesses in vitro antifungal activity against the phytopathogenicfungi Fusarium solani, F. oxysporum, Colletotrichum musae and C. gloesporioides. Contrarily, Mo-CBP3 did not affect Pythium oligandrum, an oomycete. At 0.05 mg/ml, Mo-CBP3 showed to be fungistatic against F. solani, but at 0.1 mg/ml Mo-CBP3 behaved as a potent fungicidal agent as it inhibited both the spore germination and mycelial growth of F. solani. Surprisingly, the effect of Mo-CBP3 against spore germination was observed even when the protein was heated at 100 degrees C for 1 h or pretreated with 0.15M N-acetyl-D-glucosamine. Mo-CBP3 inhibited the glucose-stimulated acidification of the incubation medium by F. solani. This is apparently caused by structural plasma membrane disarrangement induced by Mo-CBP3. Altogether, these results suggest that Mo-CBP3 might be involved in plant defense mechanisms and could be used as potential antifungal agent for controlling fungal pathogens in plants. 
12832787	20030702	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 	Crystallization and preliminary crystallographic analysis of the catalytic domain cellobiohydrolase I from Talaromyces emersonii.	Cellobiohydrolase IB is the first native enzyme from the filamentous fungus Talaromyces emersonii to be crystallized. It is a highly thermostable exo-acting enzyme. The native enzyme (MW = 56 kDa) was crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method with ammonium phosphate (dibasic) as a precipitant at pH 8.5. The crystal belongs to the tetragonal space group P4(1)2(1)2, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 74.43, c = 176.92 A, and diffracted to 1.77 A resolution at room temperature. 
15229194	20040702	Glycobiology	D016428 D013485 	Differential recognition of animal type beta4-galactosylated and alpha3-fucosylated chito-oligosaccharides by two family 18 chitinases from Trichoderma harzianum.	We report the purification of two glycosyl hydrolase family 18 chitinases, Chit33 and Chit42, from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma harzianum and characterization using a panel of different soluble chitinous substrates and inhibitors. We were particularly interested in the potential of these (alpha/beta)(8)-barrel fold enzymes to recognize beta-1,4-galactosylated and alpha-1,3-fucosylated oligosaccharides, which are animal-type saccharides of medical relevance. Three-dimensional structural models of the proteins in complex with chito-oligosaccharides were built to support the interpretation of the hydrolysis data. Our kinetic and inhibition studies are indicative of the substrate-assisted catalysis mechanism for both chitinases. Both T. harzianum chitinases are able to catalyze some transglycosylation reactions and cleave both simple chito-oligosaccharides and synthetically modified, beta-1,4-galactosylated and alpha-1,3-fucosylated chito-oligosaccharides. The cleavage data give experimental evidence that the two chitinases have differences in their substrate-binding sites, Chit42 apparently having a deeper substrate binding groove, which provides more tight binding of the substrate at subsites (-2-1-+1+2). On the other hand, some flexibility for the sugar recognition at subsites more distal from the cleavage point is allowed in both chitinases. A galactose unit can be accepted at the putative subsites -4 and -3 of Chit42, and at the subsite -4 of Chit33. Fucose units can be accepted as a branch at the putative -3 and -4 sites of Chit33 and as a branch point at -3 of Chit42. These data provide a good starting point for future protein engineering work aiming at chitinases with altered substrate-binding specificity. 
23690037	20130522	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Mycoparasitism studies of Trichoderma species against three phytopathogenic fungi: evaluation of antagonism and hydrolytic enzyme production.	Trichoderma spp. are used for biocontrol of several plant pathogens. However, their efficient interaction with the host needs to be accompanied by production of secondary metabolites and cell wall-degrading enzymes. Three parameters were evaluated after interaction between four Trichoderma species and plant-pathogenic fungi: Fusarium solani, Rhizoctonia solani and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. Trichoderma harzianum and T. asperellum were the most effective antagonists against the pathogens. Most of the Trichoderma species produced toxic volatile metabolites, having significant effects on growth and development of the plant pathogens. When these species were grown in liquid cultures with cell walls from these plant pathogens, they produced and secreted β-1,3-glucanase, NAGAse, chitinase, acid phosphatase, acid proteases and alginate lyase.  
21687962	20110621	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Identification of potential cell wall component that allows Taka-amylase A adsorption in submerged cultures of Aspergillus oryzae.	We observed that α-amylase (Taka-amylase A; TAA) activity in the culture broth disappeared in the later stage of submerged cultivation of Aspergillus oryzae. This disappearance was caused by adsorption of TAA onto the cell wall of A. oryzae and not due to protein degradation by extracellular proteolytic enzymes. To determine the cell wall component(s) that allows TAA adsorption efficiently, the cell wall was fractionated by stepwise alkali treatment and enzymatic digestion. Consequently, alkali-insoluble cell wall fractions exhibited high levels of TAA adsorption. In addition, this adsorption capacity was significantly enhanced by treatment of the alkali-insoluble fraction with β-glucanase, which resulted in the concomitant increase in the amount of chitin in the resulting fraction. In contrast, the adsorption capacity was diminished by treating the cell wall fraction with chitinase. These results suggest that the major component that allows TAA adsorption is chitin. However, both the mycelium and the cell wall demonstrated the inability to allow TAA adsorption in the early stage of cultivation, despite chitin content in the cell wall being identical in both early and late stages of cultivation. These results suggest the existence of unidentified factor(s) that could prevent the adsorption of TAA onto the cell wall. Such factor(s) is most likely removed or diminished from the cell wall following longer cultivation periods. 
8559082	19950101	Microbios	D016428 	Utilization of water hyacinth cellulose for production of cellobiase-rich preparation by Aspergillus niger 1.	Production of a cellobiase-rich preparation by Aspergillus niger 1 was achieved using water hyacinth cellulose as the sole carbon source in the culture medium. Production of cellobiase, carboxymethylcellulase (CMC-ase) and filter paper (FP)-cellulase was favoured by controlling the pH of the culture medium during fermentation at 5.0. Sodium citrate (0.5%), sodium phytate (0.1%), Tween-80 (0.2%, v/v) and asparagine (0.07%) had stimulating effects on the productivity of cellobiase, CMC-ase and FP-cellulase. Potassium dihydrogen phosphate doubled the yield of CMC-ase but had a slight effect on FP-cellulase and cellobiase. Wheat bran had a pronounced stimulating effect on the production of cellobiase and CMC-ase. The combined effects of these stimulators resulted in an enzyme preparation rich in cellobiase and contained 18.5, 0.29 and 2.21 U/ml of cellobiase, FP-cellulase and CMC-ase, respectively. A high cellobiase/FP-cellulase ratio of 63.8:1 was thus obtained with the fungal enzyme preparation. The cellobiase activity was maximal at pH 5.0 and showed good thermostability. 
20694852	20100810	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	L: (+)-Lactic acid production from non-food carbohydrates by thermotolerant Bacillus coagulans.	Lactic acid is used as an additive in foods, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics, and is also an industrial chemical. Optically pure lactic acid is increasingly used as a renewable bio-based product to replace petroleum-based plastics. However, current production of lactic acid depends on carbohydrate feedstocks that have alternate uses as foods. The use of non-food feedstocks by current commercial biocatalysts is limited by inefficient pathways for pentose utilization. B. coagulans strain 36D1 is a thermotolerant bacterium that can grow and efficiently ferment pentoses using the pentose-phosphate pathway and all other sugar constituents of lignocellulosic biomass at 50°C and pH 5.0, conditions that also favor simultaneous enzymatic saccharification and fermentation (SSF) of cellulose. Using this bacterial biocatalyst, high levels (150-180 g l(-1)) of lactic acid were produced from xylose and glucose with minimal by-products in mineral salts medium. In a fed-batch SSF of crystalline cellulose with fungal enzymes and B. coagulans, lactic acid titer was 80 g l(-1) and the yield was close to 80%. These results demonstrate that B. coagulans can effectively ferment non-food carbohydrates from lignocellulose to L: (+)-lactic acid at sufficient concentrations for commercial application. The high temperature fermentation of pentoses and hexoses to lactic acid by B. coagulans has these additional advantages: reduction in cellulase loading in SSF of cellulose with a decrease in enzyme cost in the process and a reduction in contamination of large-scale fermentations. 
11272822	20010329	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Intraspecific divergence of Saccharomyces kluyveri as revealed by the nucleotide sequences of 18S-28S rRNA spacer regions and alpha-galactosidase MEL genes.	In the five strains classified as the yeast Saccharomyces kluyveri, several substitutions were observed in the two internal transcribed spacer regions between 18S and 28S rRNA. A PCR reaction with primers targeted to the MEL1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae amplified fragments of the expected size, and those sequences showed significant divergence in the strains of S. kluyveri. 
21923690	20110920	Fundam_Clin_Pharmacol	D016428 	Sulforaphane protects SK-N-SH cells against antipsychotic-induced oxidative stress.	Adverse reactions to antipsychotic drugs (APs) have been attributed to oxidative stress. Sulforaphane (SF) is a potent antioxidant that protects against dopaminergic cell death. We examined the protective properties of SF against AP-induced oxidative stress in dopaminergic neuroblastoma cells. Human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells were treated with SF (0.5-5 μM), and 24 h later, haloperidol, risperidone or paliperidone (100 μM) was administered, either alone or in combination with dopamine (100 μM). To determine the antioxidant properties of SF, quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1) activity, glutathione S-transferase activity, and glutathione (GSH) levels were determined. Oxidative stress was measured by the increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and in protein-bound quinones. Cell viability was also assessed. SF treatment increased GSH levels and induced NQO1 activity in SK-N-SH cells. Haloperidol was the only AP that increased TBARS when administered alone. When cells were cocultured with a drug in combination with dopamine, all three APs increased TBARS and protein-bound quinones and also induced neurotoxicity. In all the experimental conditions, 5 μM SF attenuated the accumulation of TBARS and protein-bound quinones and increased cell survival rates. Our results indicate that SF increases GSH levels and induces NQO1 activity and the removal of electrophilic quinones and radical oxygen species. Furthermore, SF could provide protective effects against AP-induced toxicity in dopaminergic cells. 
22305540	20120207	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Improved production of heterologous lipase in Trichoderma reesei by RNAi mediated gene silencing of an endogenic highly expressed gene.	A lipase gene (Lip) of the Aspergillus niger was de novo synthesized and expressed in the Trichoderma reesei under the promoter of the cellobiohydrolase I gene (cbh1). RNAi-mediated gene silencing was successfully used to further improve the recombinant lipase production via down-regulation of CBHI which comprised more than 60% of the total extracellular proteins in T. reesei. The gene and protein expression of CBHI and recombinant lipase were analyzed by real-time PCR, SDS-PAGE and activity assay. The results demonstrated that RNAi-mediated gene silencing could effectively suppress cbh1 gene expression and the reduction of CBHI could result in obvious improvement of heterologous lipase production. The reconstructed strains with decreased CBHI production exhibited 1.8- to 3.2-fold increase in lipase activity than that of parental strain. The study herein provided a feasible and advantageous method of increasing heterologous target gene expression in T. reesei through preventing the high expression of a specific endogenenous gene by RNA interference. 
17408885	20070406	Gene	D016428 D013485 	Correlation of cellulase gene expression and cellulolytic activity throughout the gut of the termite Reticulitermes flavipes.	Termites have developed cellulose digestion capabilities that allow them to obtain energy and nutrition from nutritionally poor food sources, such as lignocellulosic plant material and residues derived from it (e.g., wood and humus). Lower termites, which are equipped with both endogenous (i.e., of termite origin) and symbiotic cellulases, feed primarily on wood and wood-related materials. This study investigated cellulase gene diversity, structure, and activity in the lower termite, Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar). We initially used a metagenomics approach to identify four genes encoding one endogenous and three symbiotic cellulases, which we refer to as Cell-1, -2, -3 and -4. These four genes encode proteins that share significant sequence similarity with known endoglucanases, exoglucanases and xylanases. Phylogenetic analyses further supported these inferred relationships by showing that each of the four cellulase proteins clusters tightly with respective termite, protozoan or fungal cellulases. Gene structure studies revealed that Cell-1, -3 and -4 are intron-free, while Cell-2 contains the first intron sequence to be identified from a termite symbiont cellulase. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) revealed that the endogenous Cell-1 gene is expressed exclusively in the salivary gland/foregut, whereas symbiotic Cell-2, -3, and -4 are highly expressed in the hindgut (where cellulolytic protists are harbored). Cellulase activity assays mapped the distribution pattern of endoglucanase, exoglucanase and xylanase activity throughout the R. flavipes digestive tract. Cellulase gene expression correlated well with the specific types of cellulolytic activities observed in each gut region (foregut+salivary gland, midgut and hindgut). These results suggest the presence of a single unified cellulose digestion system, whereby endogenous and symbiotic cellulases work sequentially and collaboratively across the entire digestive tract of R. flavipes. 
10737142	20000329	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 	Expression of fungal thermotolerant endo-1,4-beta-glucanase in transgenic barley seeds during germination.	The malting quality of two barley cultivars, Kymppi and Golden Promise, was modified to better meet the requirements of the brewing process. The egl1 gene, coding for fungal thermotolerant endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (EGI, cellulase), was transferred to the cultivars using particle bombardment, and transgenic plants were regenerated on bialaphos selection. Integration of the egl1 gene was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization. The transgenic seeds were screened for the expression of the heterologous EGI. Under the high-pI alpha-amylase promoter, the egl1 gene was expressed during germination. The heterologous enzyme was thermotolerant at 65 degrees C for 2 h, thus being suitable for mashing conditions. The amount of heterologous EGI produced by the seeds (ca. 0.025% of soluble seed protein), has been shown to be sufficient to reduce wort viscosity by decreasing the soluble beta-glucan content. A decrease in the soluble beta-glucan content in the wort improves the filtration rate of beer. 
8611747	19951201	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Characteristic expression of three amylase-encoding genes, agdA, amyB, and glaA in Aspergillus oryzae transformants containing multiple copies of the agdA gene.	In Aspergillus oryzae wild-type strains, the expression of the agdA gene encoding alpha-glucosidase (AGL) is induced by maltose at the transcriptional level in a similar manner to the amyB gene encoding Takaamylase A (TAA) and the glaA gene encoding glucoamylase (GLA). In A. oryzae transformants containing multiple copies of the agdA gene, a high-level of AGL activity was observed. This was accompanied by a significant reduction in TAA and GLA activities. Moreover, transformants with the highest AGL activity showed the lowest degree of TAA and GLA activities. Northern blot analyses showed that the transcriptional levels of amyB and glaA in the AGL-overproducing transformant were drastically reduced when large amounts of agdA mRNA were detected in maltose-grown mycelia. In addition, the glucose concentration of the maltose-containing medium that was used to grow the AGL-overproducing transformant for RNA extraction was higher than that of the control transformant. These results suggest that the reduced expression of the amyB and glaA genes in the AGL-overproducing transformant was due to either titration of a common regulatory protein(s) involved in maltose induction or carbon catabolite repression. 
18062191	20071208	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Influence of mineral and organic fertilization on soil fungi, enzyme activities and humic substances in a long-term field experiment.	Changes in microfungal communities, fungal activities and humic substances (HS) in agricultural soils kept under different fertilization regimes were observed and their causal relationships were investigated in a long-term field experiment. Fertilization did not change the abundance of HS-utilizing microfungi and, except for organic amendment alone, total culturable microfungi were also unaffected by this factor. Organic fertilization increased activities of manganese peroxidase (MnP) and proteinase, but decreased endo-1,4-beta-glucanase activity compared to the corresponding control without organic fertilization. In soils treated with mineral fertilizers, the activities of MnP, endo-1,4-beta-glucanase and proteinase were higher than in control without any mineral treatment. Both the aromaticity of fulvic acid and the molar mass of humic acid was lower in soil with organic fertilization, which may be a result of oxidative degradation mediated by higher MnP activity observed in treatments with organic fertilization. 
12520085	20030110	Mol._Med.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Involvement of [beta]-glucans in the wide-spectrum antimicrobial activity of Williopsis saturnus var. mrakii MUCL 41968 killer toxin.	Williopsis saturnus var. mrakii MUCL 41968 secretes a 85-kDa glycoprotein killer toxin (WmKT) that displays a cytocidal activity against a wide range of microorganisms, making WmKT a promising candidate for the development of new antimicrobial molecules. Although the killing mechanism of WmKT is still unknown, the toxin was recently proposed to bind to the surface of sensitive microorganisms through the recognition of beta-glucans. Indeed, Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains sensitive to the toxin become resistant when mutated in their beta-glucan synthesis pathway. To investigate the interaction of WmKT with beta-glucans, we examined in agar diffusion assays the WmKT activity in the presence of enzymes displaying beta-glucanase activity. The toxin activity was also investigated using spheroplasts derived from sensitive yeast cells. The hydrolytic activity of WmKT was studied using specific glucosidase inhibitors as well as various sugar molecules covalently linked to p-nitrophenyl as potential substrates. Finally, the ultrastructural modifications induced by WmKT activity on sensitive yeasts were assessed by scanning electron microscopy. The data reported here support the hypothesis that WmKT binds to sensitive cells using surface-exposed beta-glucans. Indeed beta-glucanase exerts an antagonistic effect on WmKT activity and spheroplasts derived from WmKT-sensitive yeast cells are shown to be resistant to WmKT, suggesting that cell wall beta-glucans are required for WmKT lethal effect. Because WmKT exhibits amino acid sequence similarities with proteins suspected to be glucanase, we also investigated the effect of castanospermine, a potent glucosidase inhibitor, on WmKT activity. Castanospermine completely abolished WmKT killer activity as well as its hydrolytic enzymatic activity against p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside. The scanning electron microscopy analysis of sensitive yeast cells treated with the toxin reveals that WmKT causes cell wall modifications similar to those observed with zymolyase. The results reported in this study show that WmKT activity requires an interaction between the mycocin and the cell wall beta-glucans. Moreover, they indicate that WmKT acts on sensitive yeast cells through a hydrolytic activity directed against cell wall beta-glucans that disrupts the yeast cell wall integrity leading to death. 
9691450	19980806	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Structures of enzymically derived oligosaccharides from sorghum glucuronoarabinoxylan.	Oligosaccharides derived from alkali-extracted sorghum glucuronoarabinoxylan by digestion with a combination of (1-->4)-beta-D-arabinoxylan arabinofuranohydrolase (AXH) and endo-(1-->4)-beta-D-xylanase (Xyl I), both from Aspergillus awamori, were purified by size-exclusion chromatography followed by preparative high-performance anion-exchange chromatography. Structural studies including monosaccharide analysis, methylation analysis, 1H NMR spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry were carried out, resulting in the characterisation of four novel oligosaccharides, namely, alpha-D-GlcpA-(1-->2)-beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4)-beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4) -beta-D-Xyl p, alpha-D-GlcpA-(1-->2)-beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4) [alpha-L-Araf-(1-->3)]-beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4)-beta-D-Xyl p, alpha-D-GlcpA-(1-->2)-beta-D- Xyl p-(1-->4)-beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4)[alpha-L-Araf-(1-->2)-alpha)-alpha- L-Araf-(1-->3)]-beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4)-beta-D-Xyl p, and alpha-D-GlcpA-(1-->2) -beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4)[alpha-L-Araf-(1-->3] beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4)[alpha-L-Araf-(1-->2)-alpha-L-Araf-(1-->3)] -beta-D-Xyl p-(1-->4)-beta-D-Xyl p. The various oligosaccharides identified provide additional insight into the structure of sorghum glucuronoarabinoxylan. Furthermore, novel data were generated with respect to the substrate specificity of AXH and Xyl I towards glucuronoarabinoxylans in general. 
15907541	20050524	Plasmid	D016428 	An episomal expression vector for screening mutant gene libraries in Pichia pastoris.	Screening mutant gene libraries for isolating improved enzyme variants is a powerful technique that benefits from effective and reliable biological expression systems. Pichia pastoris is a very useful organism to express proteins that are inactive in other hosts such as Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. However, most P. pastoris expression plasmids are designed to integrate into the host chromosome and hence are not as amenable to high-throughput screening projects. We have designed a P. pastoris expression vector, pBGP1, incorporating an autonomous replication sequence that allows the plasmid to exist as an episomal element. This vector contains the alpha-factor signal sequence to direct secretion of the mutant enzymes. Expression of the genes is driven by the constitutive GAP promoter, thus eliminating the need for timed or cell density-specific inductions. The pBGP1 plasmid was used to screen a xylanase gene library to isolate higher activity mutants. 
8358323	19930501	Biochem._Mol._Biol._Int.	D016428 	Adsorption of glucoamylase from Asp. awamori X-100/D27 on cell walls.	Upon secretion, the major form of glucoamylase from Asp. awamori adsorbs on fungal cell walls. Its substrate binding site showing affinity for alpha-1-4 and alpha-1-6 wall glucans is responsible for adsorption. The minor form in which this site is absent has no sorption ability for cell walls. 
1624111	19920401	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	The promoter element GTACAAG of the SGA and STA2 genes is a possible target site for repression by the STA10 gene product from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The SGA and STA2 genes that, respectively, encode the intra- and extracellular glucoamylases of Saccharomyces cerevisiae are coregulated negatively, at the level of transcription, by the STA10 gene. This finding was re-examined by determining the effects of STA10 on the expression of gene constructs containing different fragments from the SGA and STA2 promoter regions fused to the lacZ gene. Repression was observed only for promoter fragments carrying the sequence GTACAAG indicating that this element is responsible for the coregulation of SGA and STA2 by STA10. 
18592604	19900605	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Action pattern of alpha-amylase from Aspergillus oryzae in concentrated media.	The influence of concentrated maltotetraose solutions on fungal alpha-amylase activity and specificity has been determined. It has been found that the enzyme is not inhibited by 500 g/L substrate concentration and that transglycosylation reactions are increased with rising substrate concentration. The amount of oligosaccharides of polymerization degree higher than maltotetraose reaches 20% (w/w). Moreover, the effect of polyhydric alcohols, known as water activity depressors has been analyzed: the presence of polyols does not modify the amount of transglycosylation products, but changes the hydrolysis pattern by favoring the formation of low polymerization degree oligosaccharides. 
15236908	20040709	J._Biochem._Biophys._Methods	D016428 D013485 	Endochitinase activity determination using N-fluorescein-labeled chitin.	A fluorimetric method for the determination of endochitinolytic activity using N-fluorescein-labeled chitin (FITC-Chitin) is proposed, and a procedure for FITC-Chitin preparation with a degree of FITC content of 2.2 mol% (one FITC molecule per 45 glucosamine residues) is described. FITC-Chitin is capable to distinguish endochitinase and exochitinase (beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase) activities. 
10075414	19990313	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Transcription of the pcbAB, pcbC and penDE genes of Penicillium chrysogenum AS-P-78 is repressed by glucose and the repression is not reversed by alkaline pHs.	Glucose repressed transcription of the penicillin biosynthesis genes pcbAB, pcbC and penDE when added at inoculation time to cultures of Penicillium chrysogenum AS-P-78 but it had little repressive effect when added at 12 h and no effect when added at 24 or 36 h. A slight increase in the expression of pcbC and penDE (and to a smaller extent of pcbAB) was observed in glucose-grown cultures at pH 6.8, 7.4 and 8.0 as compared with pH 6.2, but alkaline pHs did not override the strong repression exerted by glucose. Transcription of the actin gene used as control was not significantly affected by glucose or alkaline pHs. Repression by glucose of the three penicillin biosynthetic genes was also observed using the lacZ reporter gene coupled to each of the three promoters in monocopy transformants with the constructions integrated at the pyrG locus. Glucose repression of the three genes encoding enzymes of penicillin biosynthesis therefore appears to be exerted by a regulatory mechanism independent from pH regulation. 
10833405	20000602	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013485 	High-level production of recombinant fungal endo-beta-1,4-xylanase in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris.	Efficient production of recombinant Aspergillus niger family 11 1, 4-beta-xylanase was achieved in Pichia pastoris. The cDNA-encoding XylA fused to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae invertase signal peptide was placed under the control of the P. pastoris AOX1 promoter. Secretion yields up to 60 mg/liter were obtained in synthetic medium. The recombinant XylA was purified to homogeneity using a one-step purification protocol and found to be identical to the enzyme overexpressed in A. niger with respect to size, pI, and immunoreactivity. N-terminal sequence analysis of the recombinant protein indicated that the S. cerevisiae signal peptide was correctly processed in P. pastoris. The purified protein has a molecular weight of 19,893 Da, in excellent agreement with the calculated mass, and appears as one single band on isoelectric focusing with pI value around 3.5. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry confirmed the presence of one major isoform produced by P. pastoris and the absence of glycosylation. The recombinant enzyme was further characterized in terms of specific activity, pH profile, kinetic parameters, and thermostability toward birchwood xylan as substrate and compared with the xylanase purified from A. niger. Both enzymes exhibit a pH optimum at 3.5 and maximal activity at 50 degrees C. The enzyme activity follows normal Michaelis-Menten kinetics with K(m) and V(max) values similar for both enzymes. P. pastoris produced recombinant xylanase in high yields that can be obtained readily as a single form. A. niger xylanase is the first microbial xylanase efficiently secreted and correctly processed by P. pastoris. 
20455032	20100511	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Trichoderma harzianum IOC-4038: A promising strain for the production of a cellulolytic complex with significant β-glucosidase activity from sugarcane bagasse cellulignin.	Sugarcane bagasse is an agroindustrial residue generated in large amounts in Brazil. This biomass can be used for the production of cellulases, aiming at their use in second-generation processes for bioethanol production. Therefore, this work reports the ability of a fungal strain, Trichoderma harzianum IOC-4038, to produce cellulases on a novel material, xylan free and cellulose rich, generated from sugarcane bagasse, named partially delignified cellulignin. The extract produced by T. harzianum under submerged conditions reached 745, 97, and 559 U L(-1) of β-glucosidase, FPase, and endoglucanase activities, respectively. The partial characterization of this enzyme complex indicated, using a dual analysis, that the optimal pH values for the biocatalysis ranged from 4.9 to 5.2 and optimal temperatures were between 47 and 54 °C, depending on the activity studied. Thermal stability analyses revealed no significant decrease in activity at 37 °C during 23 h of incubation. When compared to model strains, Aspergillus niger ATCC-16404 and Trichoderma reesei RutC30, T. harzianum fermentation was faster and its extract showed a better balanced enzyme complex, with adequate characteristics for its application in simultaneous saccharification and fermentation processes. 
9019140	19960301	Microbiologia	D016428 	Separation and partial purification of beta-glucosidase and two endoglucanases in Aspergillus niveus.	The thermotolerant Aspergillus niveus strain RMF 7883 was grown in Czapek medium, with filter paper cellulose. The proportion of mycelial-bound to extracellular enzymes was studied. Most of the beta-glucosidase (80.9%) and endoglucanases (78.3%) activities were extracellular. The extracellular endoglucanases and beta-glucosidase were separated and partially purified by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration, followed by ion exchange chromatography on CM-trisacryl M. Two extracellular endoglucanases, EG I and EG II (130 kDa and 35 kDa, respectively), and beta-glucosidase (194 kDa) were isolated from culture filtrate. 
8298280	19930101	Arch._Med._Res.	D003160 D016428 D016454 	Yeast exoglucanases. Where redundancy implies necessity.	Three exoglucanase genes have been described in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The bulk of the exoglucanase (EXO) activity is encoded by the EXG1 gene, whose primary gene product is differentially glycosylated during its transit to the cell surface to yield three isoenzymes: EXOI, EXOII and EXOII1/2. EXOII, the major isoenzyme, carries two short oligosaccharides, each one consisting of an inner core with a single branch of the outer chain, attached to both potential glycosylation sites present in the molecule (Asn165 and Asn325). EXOI and EXOII1/2 are minor representatives. The second carries a single short sugar residue attached to Asn165 whereas the former elongate the outer chain of, at least, one oligosaccharide as other cell wall mannoproteins. The protein portion of the EXGI gene product is cleaved in Golgi by the Kex2 protease. A different exoglucanase, encoded by a second gene (EXG2), has been characterized as a heavily glycosylated, membrane bound 200 kDa glycoprotein. Finally, a third exoglucanase, encoded by the SSG gene, is synthesized during sporulation of diploids. Exoglucanases similar to those encoded by the EXG1 gene have been detected in other yeasts and characterized in depth in Candida albicans. The three polypeptides from S. cerevisiae and its counterpart from C. albicans have several conserved regions occupying the same relative positions. Studies on the function of these highly conserved enzymes are rather inconclusive. 
7487009	19951001	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 	Substrate-dependent differential splicing of introns in the regions encoding the cellulose binding domains of two exocellobiohydrolase I-like genes in Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	Recently, we have shown differential splicing of an intron in the cbhI.2 gene of Phanerochaete chrysosporium ME446; this intron lies within the region of the gene encoding the cellulose binding domain (P.F.G. Sims, M. S. Soares-Felipe, Q. Wang, M.E. Gent, C. Tempelaars, and P. Broda, Mol. Microbiol. 12:209-216, 1994). Here, we show that such differential splicing occurs in the cbhI.1 gene of this fungus as well as in the cbhI.2 gene and that this phenomenon is substrate dependent. Avicel elicits the synthesis of both classes of mRNA transcripts from both of these genes. In contrast, carboxymethyl cellulose predominantly elicits the synthesis of fully spliced transcripts from both genes. Such differential splicing might allow this fungus to regulate the specificities of substrate binding for these cellulases. 
22919820	20120828	Ying_Yong_Sheng_Tai_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Disease resistance signal transfer between roots of different tomato plants through common arbuscular mycorrhiza networks].	Common mycorrhizal networks (CMNs) are the underground conduits of nutrient exchange between plants. However, whether the CMNs can serve as the underground conduits of chemical communication to transfer the disease resistance signals between plants are unknown. By inoculating arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus (AMF) Glomus mosseae to establish CMNs between 'donor' and 'receiver' tomato plants, and by inoculating Alternaria solani, the causal agent of tomato early blight disease, to the 'donor' plants, this paper studied whether the potential disease resistance signals can be transferred between the 'donor' and 'receiver' plants roots. The real time RT-PCR analysis showed that after inoculation with A. solani, the AMF-inoculated 'donor' plants had strong expression of three test defense-related genes in roots, with the transcript levels of the phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), lipoxygenase (LOX) and chitinase (PR3) being significantly higher than those in the roots of the 'donor' plants only inoculated with A. solani, not inoculated with both A. solani and AMF, and only inoculated with AMF. More importantly, in the presence of CMNs, the expression levels of the three genes in the roots of the 'receiver' plants were significantly higher than those of the 'receiver' plants without CMNs connection, with the connection blocking, and with the connection but the 'donor' plants not A. solani-inoculated. Compared with the control (without CMNs connection), the transcript level of the PAL, LOX and PR3 in the roots of the 'receiver' plants having CMNs connection with the 'donor' plants was 4.2-, 4.5- and 3.5-fold higher, respectively. In addition, the 'donor' plants activated their defensive responses more quickly than the 'receiver' plants (18 and 65 h vs. 100 and 140 h). These findings suggested that the disease resistance signals produced by the pathogen-induced 'donor' tomato plant roots could be transferred to the 'receiver' plant roots through CMNs. 
12114561	20020713	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Leucine-derived cyano glucosides in barley.	Barley (Hordeum vulgare) seedlings contain five cyano glucosides derived from the amino acid L-leucine (Leu). The chemical structure and the relative abundance of the cyano glucosides were investigated by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses using spring barley cultivars with high, medium, and low cyanide potential. The barley cultivars showed a 10-fold difference in their cyano glucoside content, but the relative content of the individual cyano glucosides remained constant. Epiheterodendrin, the only cyanogenic glucoside present, comprised 12% to 18% of the total content of cyano glucosides. It is proposed that the aglycones of all five cyano glucosides are formed by the initial action of a cytochrome P450 enzyme of the CYP79 family converting L-Leu into Z-3-methylbutanal oxime and subsequent action of a less specific CYP71E enzyme converting the oxime into 3-methylbutyro nitrile and mediating subsequent hydroxylations at the alpha-, as well as beta- and gamma-, carbon atoms. Presence of cyano glucosides in the barley seedlings was restricted to leaf tissue, with 99% confined to the epidermis cell layers of the leaf blade. Microsomal preparations from epidermal cells were not able to convert L-[(14)C]Leu into the biosynthetic intermediate, Z-3-methylbutanal-oxime. This was only achieved using microsomal preparations from other cell types in the basal leaf segment, demonstrating translocation of the cyano glucosides to the epidermal cell layers after biosynthesis. A beta-glucosidase able to degrade epiheterodendrin was detected exclusively in yet a third compartment, the endosperm of the germinating seed. Therefore, in barley, a putative function of cyano glucosides in plant defense is not linked to cyanide release. 
3289256	19880401	Vet_Hum_Toxicol	D016428 D016454 	Fructooligosaccharides: a review.	Fructooligosaccharides are naturally occurring compounds that have been reported in a variety of plants. Neosugar is a fructooligosaccharide mixture of 1F-(1-beta-fructofuranosyl)-sucrose polymers which is produced on a commercial scale from sucrose using a fungal fructosyltransferase. The resulting product is 0.4 to 0.6 times as sweet as sugar and is resistant to digestion by mammalian alpha-amylase, sucrase and maltase. Although Neosugar is non-digestible in humans, it is selectively utilized by bifidobacteria. Neosugar has been examined extensively in human and animal studies which indicate a lack of toxicity, carcinogenicity and genotoxic effects. Neosugar is used as a feed additive for poultry and swine in Japan and has been approved in foods as a raw material. Additional studies in progress in the US suggest that it could provide an economic alternative as an additive to poultry and swine feed. 
20205539	20100309	Phytopathology	D016428 D013485 	Identification, characterization, and expression analyses of class II and IV chitinase genes from Douglas-fir seedlings infected by Phellinus sulphurascens.	Laminated root rot (LRR) disease, caused by the fungus Phellinus sulphurascens, is a major threat to coastal Douglas-fir (DF) (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forests in western North America. Understanding host-pathogen interactions of this pathosystem is essential to manage this important conifer root disease. Our research objectives were to identify DF pathogenesis-related (PR) genes and analyze their expression patterns over the course of infection. We constructed a cDNA library of Phellinus sulphurascens-infected DF seedling roots and sequenced a total of 3,600 random cDNA clones from this library. One of the largest groups of identified genes (203 cDNA clones) matched with chitinase genes reported in other plant species. We identified at least three class II and six class IV chitinase genes from DF seedlings. Quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analyses showed significant differential expression patterns locally in root tissues and systemically in needle tissues after fungal invasion. Nonetheless, there was a common trend in gene expression patterns for most of the chitinase genes: an upregulation within 12 h of pathogen inoculation followed by down-regulation within 2 to 3 days postinoculation (dpi), and then further upregulation within 5 to 7 dpi. Western immunoblot data showed differential accumulation of class IV chitinases in Phellinus sulphurascens-infected DF seedlings. Further detailed functional analyses will help us to understand the specific role of DF chitinases in defense against Phellinus sulphurascens infection. 
9330667	19970101	Acta_Microbiol_Immunol_Hung	D016428 D013485 	Shake culture studies for the production of amylases by Thermomyces lanuginosus.	The paper describes shake flask culture optimization studies for the production of amylases by Thermomyces lanuginosus. The culture was found to produce maximally alpha-amylase and glucoamylase (18.4 & 11.2 units/ml), respectively when the medium contained rice flour (2% w/v) as carbon and corn steep liquor as nitrogen source with medium pH adjusted to 5.5 and incubated for 72 h under shaking conditions (150 rpm) at 50 degrees C. 
22704217	20120619	Chemosphere	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Does anthracene affect microbial activities and organic matter decomposition? A comparative study in Pinus halepensis litters from Mediterranean coastal and inland areas.	The widespread concern about pollution caused by Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) raises the question of how they affect soil microbial communities which are potentially involved in the transformation of these pollutants. Using microcosms, we describe the effect of anthracene, a model PAH, on microbial communities inhabiting a Pinus halepensis litter from both coastal (COS) and inland (INL) Mediterranean sites. The microcosms were incubated over 3 months (25°C, 60% WHC) and the effects of anthracene on microbial activities of both litters were monitored. Different enzyme activities (laccase, cellulase, β-glucosidase and acid phosphatase) and microbial respiration were measured and variations in litter chemical composition over incubation were determined using (13)C Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) from both sites. Our results show that lignocellulolytic enzymes increased markedly after a 3-month incubation in COS microcosms, especially in the presence of anthracene, whereas INL microcosms were not similarly affected. These results show that anthracene not only has no toxic effect on the microbial activities tested but actually enhances the lignocellulolytic activities of the fungal communities from coastal litters, demonstrating the detoxification potential and resistance of stressed Mediterranean coastal ecosystems. 
7753774	19950509	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D003160 D016428 D013486 D016454 	Surface signaling in pathogenesis.	Surface signaling plays a major role in fungal infection. Topographical features of the plant surface and chemicals on the surface can trigger germination of fungal spores and differentiation of the germ tubes into appressoria. Ethylene, the fruit-ripening hormone, triggers germination of conidia, branching of hyphae, and multiple appressoria formation in Colletotrichum, thus allowing fungi to time their infection to coincide with ripening of the host. Genes uniquely expressed during appressoria formation induced by topography and surface chemicals have been isolated. Disruption of some of them has been shown to decrease virulence on the hosts. Penetration of the cuticle by the fungus is assisted by fungal cutinase secreted at the penetration structure of the fungus. Disruption of cutinase gene in Fusarium solani pisi drastically decreased its virulence. Small amounts of cutinase carried by spores of virulent pathogens, upon contact with plant surface, release small amounts of cutin monomers that trigger cutinase gene expression. The promoter elements involved in this process in F. solani pisi were identified, and transcription factors that bind these elements were cloned. One of them, cutinase transcription factor 1, expressed in Escherichia coli, is phosphorylated. Several protein kinases from F. solani pisi were cloned. The kinase involved in phosphorylation of specific transcription factors and the precise role of phosphorylation in regulating cutinase gene transcription remain to be elucidated. 
19201950	20090210	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Novel Coprinopsis cinerea polyesterase that hydrolyzes cutin and suberin.	Three cutinase gene-like genes from the basidiomycete Coprinopsis cinerea (Coprinus cinereus) found with a similarity search were cloned and expressed in Trichoderma reesei under the control of an inducible cbh1 promoter. The selected transformants of all three polyesterase constructs showed activity with p-nitrophenylbutyrate, used as a model substrate. The most promising transformant of the cutinase CC1G_09668.1 gene construct was cultivated in a laboratory fermentor, with a production yield of 1.4 g liter(-l) purified protein. The expressed cutinase (CcCUT1) was purified to homogeneity by immobilized metal affinity chromatography exploiting a C-terminal His tag. The N terminus of the enzyme was found to be blocked. The molecular mass of the purified enzyme was determined to be around 18.8 kDa by mass spectrometry. CcCUT1 had higher activity on shorter (C(2) to C(10)) fatty acid esters of p-nitrophenol than on longer ones, and it also exhibited lipase activity. CcCUT1 had optimal activity between pH 7 and 8 but retained activity over a wide pH range. The enzyme retained 80% of its activity after 20 h of incubation at 50 degrees C, but residual activity decreased sharply at 60 degrees C. Microscopic analyses and determination of released hydrolysis products showed that the enzyme was able to depolymerize apple cutin and birch outer bark suberin. 
10759534	20000412	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Extracellular H(2)O(2) induced by oligogalacturonides is not involved in the inhibition of the auxin-regulated rolB gene expression in tobacco leaf explants.	alpha-1,4-Linked oligogalacturonides (OGs) inhibit auxin-regulated transcriptional activation of a rolB-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene fusion in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaf explants (D. Bellincampi, M. Cardarelli, D. Zaghi, G. Serino, G. Salvi, C. Gatz, F. Cervone, M. M. Altamura, P. Costantino, G. De Lorenzo [1996] Plant Cell 8: 477-487). In this paper we show that inhibition by OGs is very rapid, with a short lag time, and takes place even after rolB promoter activation has initiated. OGs also induce a transient and catalase-sensitive accumulation of H(2)O(2) in the leaf explant culture medium. OGs with a degree of polymerization from 12 to 15 are required for both the inhibition of the auxin-induced rolB-driven accumulation of GUS and the induction of H(2)O(2) accumulation(.) However, OG concentration for half-maximal induction of H(2)O(2) accumulation is approximately 3-fold higher than that for half-maximal inhibition of rolB promoter activity. The inhibition of rolB promoter activity is not influenced by the addition of catalase or superoxide dismutase, suggesting that H(2)O(2) and superoxide are not involved in this effect. A fungal oligo-beta-glucan elicitor induces extracellular H(2)O(2) accumulation at comparable or higher levels than those observed with OGs, but does not prevent the auxin-induced accumulation of GUS. We conclude that H(2)O(2) produced upon treatment with OGs is not involved in the inhibition of the auxin-induced expression of the rolB gene. 
7765876	19950131	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Modification of a xylanase cDNA isolated from an anaerobic fungus Neocallimastix patriciarum for high-level expression in Escherichia coli.	A Neocallimastix patriciarum xylanase cDNA with the core coding sequence essentially identical to xynA was isolated and modified for high-level expression in Escherichia coli. The xylanase cDNA was truncated into individual catalytic domains, which were modified at the N-terminus. These modified xylanases were synthesised as non-fusion proteins under the control of the tac promoter. High-level expression was obtained with the modified domain II construct, accounting for approx. 25% of total cellular protein. However, with the same vector and expression cassette, expression levels of constructs containing domain I or domains I and II fused in tandem were very low. RNA analysis revealed that the striking difference in expression levels of these three constructs was not due to transcription efficiency, but was mainly related to transcript stability. Further analysis of the domain II construct revealed that the high-level expression of the domain II xylanase was largely attributed to the presence of a favourable N-terminal coding sequence, as mutation at the N-terminus of the domain II dramatically reduced the expression level. The modified domain II xylanase produced in E. coli had a specific activity of 1229 U mg-1 protein at pH 7 and 50 degrees C without purification. The availability of a recombinant fungal xylanase with high specific activity and in high yield offers a potentially attractive source of xylanase for industrial applications. 
3397009	19880101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	Synergism of rumen microbial hydrolases during degradation of plant polymers.	In isolated mixture of exocellular enzymes of rumen bacteria Ruminococcus flavefaciens, Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens and rumen fungus Neocallimastix frontalis, specific activities of cellulases, hemicellulases and glycosidases were determined. The highest specific activities were shown mostly for proteins of N. frontalis. 
26853	19780301	Mikrobiologiia	D004740 D016428 	[Cellulase formation by soil yeasts of the genus Trichosporon and by microscopic fungi].	The production of celulases by a soil yeast belonging to the genus Trichosporon and by microscopic fungi of various systematic groups was studied. The yeast synthesized relatively small amounts of cellulases in contrast to microscopic fungi. The active culture producing cellulases was the fungus Trichoderma longibrachiatum 7-26. 
8585318	19951101	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	PMT3 and PMT4, two new members of the protein-O-mannosyltransferase gene family of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Two genes PMT3 and PMT4 were identified by polymerase chain reaction of genomic DNA using primers derived from regions of high homology between the products of three genes PMT1, PMT2 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and part of a PMT1 related sequence of Kluyveromyces lactis. Pmt1p and Pmt2p are mannosyltransferases involved in the transfer of a mannosyl residue from dolichyl phosphate-D-mannose (Dol-P-Man) to seryl and threonyl residues in proteins. The products encoded by the PMT3 and PMT4 genes have almost identical hydropathy profiles in comparison to PMT1 and PMT2: a hydrophobic N- and C-terminal third each with multiple potential transmembrane helices and a central hydrophilic part. The predicted Pmt3p contains 753 amino acids, four potential N-glycosylation sites and it is significantly homologous to Pmt1p, Pmt2p and Pmt4p. Pmt4p contains 762 amino acids and two potential N-glycosylation sites. Northern blot analysis showed a single mRNA transcript of PMT3 and PMT4 of 2.8 kb. Thus PMT3 and PMT4 are two new members of the PMT gene family. The pmt4 null mutant the pmt3 pmt4 double null mutant, but not pmt3 null mutant, showed a significant shift of chitinase due to under glycosylation of the enzyme. The triple disruption pmt2 pmt3 pmt4 and the quadruple disruption result in a lethal phenotype. 
10361719	19990611	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Candida albicans exoglucanase as a reporter gene in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	The Candida albicans XOG1 gene, previously shown to be a good reporter gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and C. albicans, was tested in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Unlike the budding yeast, S. pombe does not produce exoglucanase activity and hence this system would be applicable to any given strain of this organism. The XOG1 gene was located under the control of the nmt1 promoter and its functionality could be demonstrated even at high temperatures (37 degrees C). The exoglucanase activity can be measured both in vivo and in vitro by either a simple biochemical reaction (on cells or media) or by flow cytometry, because the cells remain viable after the assay. 
11514529	20010822	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013486 	Cohesin-dockerin interactions of cellulosomal subunits of Clostridium cellulovorans.	The cellulosome of Clostridium cellulovorans consists of three major subunits: CbpA, EngE, and ExgS. The C. cellulovorans scaffolding protein (CbpA) contains nine hydrophobic repeated domains (cohesins) for the binding of enzymatic subunits. Cohesin domains are quite homologous, but there are some questions regarding their binding specificity because some of the domains have regions of low-level sequence similarity. Two cohesins which exhibit 60% sequence similarity were investigated for their ability to bind cellulosomal enzymes. Cohesin 1 (Coh1) was found to contain amino acid residues corresponding to amino acids 312 to 453 of CbpA, which contains a total of 1,848 amino acid residues. Coh6 was determined to contain amino acid residues corresponding to residues 1113 to 1254 of CbpA. By genetic construction, these two cohesins were each fused to MalE, producing MalE-Coh1 and MalE-Coh6. The abilities of two fusion proteins to bind to EngE, ExgS, and CbpA were compared. Although MalE-Coh6 could bind EngE and ExgS, little or no binding of the enzymatic subunits was observed with MalE-Coh1. Significantly, the abilities of the two fusion proteins to bind CbpA were similar. The binding of dockerin-containing enzymes to cohesin-containing proteins was suggested as a model for assembly of cellulosomes. In our examination of the role of dockerins, it was also shown that the binding of endoglucanase B (EngB) to CbpA was dependent on the presence of EngB's dockerin. These results suggest that different cohesins may function with differing efficiency and specificity, that cohesins may play some role in the formation of polycellulosomes through Coh-CbpA interactions, and that dockerins play an important role during the interaction of cellulosomal enzymes and cohesins present in CbpA. 
23557024	20130406	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	The catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A StPKA-c contributes to conidiation and early invasion in the phytopathogenic fungus Setosphaeria turcica.	Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) is an important mediator of signal transduction in eukaryotic cells. Thus, identifying its function is necessary to understand the cAMP signaling network. StPKA-c, the PKA catalytic subunit gene in Setosphaeria turcica, was investigated by RNA interference technology. Transformant strains M3, M5, and M9 with diverse StPKA-c silencing efficiency were confirmed by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Northern blot. Compared with the wild-type strain 01-23, the transformant strains exhibited increased growth rate and significantly decreased conidium production. In addition, the ratios of spore germination and appressorium formation and penetration were slightly reduced. Relative to the wild-type strain, the transformants demonstrated different colony color, greatly reduced pathogenicity, and similar HT-toxin activity. Further studies showed that the content of intracellular melanin in the transformants significantly decreased, and the transcription of transcriptional factor StMR was down-regulated correspondingly. The transcription and enzyme activity of xylanase was also impaired. Thus, we proposed that StPKA-c was mainly involved in the mycelium growth, conidiation, and pathogenesis of S. turcica. Furthermore, it was positively correlated with the biosyntheses of melanin and xylanase but dispensable for the activity of HT-toxin. 
10489693	19990918	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	Synthesis of a Trichoderma chitinase which affects the Sclerotium rolfsii and Rhizoctonia solani cell walls.	A Trichoderma sp. isolate, hereafter called T6, produces a 46-kDa endochitinase (CHIT 46) which had been shown to drastically affect in vitro the cell walls of the phytopathogens Sclerotium rolfsii and Rhizoctonia solani. We attempted to gain insight into its properties. The CHIT 46 N-terminal amino acid sequence shares a very high homology with other fungal chitinases. Western blot analysis using polyclonal antibodies anti-CHIT 46 revealed that this enzyme is immunologically distinct from other proteins produced by the same Trichoderma isolate T6, but is immunologically identical with proteins having equivalent molar mass, probably chitinases, produced by other Trichoderma spp. isolates. In addition, the antibodies revealed also that a substantial amount of this enzyme is secreted into the culture medium 2 d after the Trichoderma isolate T6 comes into contact with chitin. 
2258050	19901015	Gene	D016428 	Expression of cDNAs encoding barley alpha-amylase 1 and 2 in yeast and characterization of the secreted proteins.	Amylolytic strains of the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, were constructed by transformation with expression plasmids containing cDNAs encoding either AMY1 (clone E) or AMY2 (clone pM/C). The alpha-amylases were efficiently secreted into the culture medium directed by their own signal peptides. When clone E without its 5'-noncoding region was expressed from the yeast PGK promoter, AMY1 was produced as 1% of total cell protein and was thus the major protein secreted, whereas a similar construct derived from pM/C produced much less AMY2. This level is the highest reported for a plant protein secreted by yeast as mediated by the endogenous signal peptide. Production of AMY1 increased 25-fold when the 5'-noncoding part of clone E which contains a 12-bp dG.dC homopolymer tail had been removed. Moreover, expression was one to two orders of magnitude higher when genes encoding AMY1 or AMY2 were inserted between promoter and terminator of the yeast PGK gene in comparison to expression directed from the ADC1 or GAL1 promoters. Recombinant AMY1 and AMY2 had the same Mr and N-terminal sequence as the corresponding barley malt enzymes. Furthermore, none of the enzymes were found to be N-glycosylated. Isoelectric focusing indicated that transformed yeast cells secreted one major form of AMY2 and four dominant forms of AMY1. One AMY1 form corresponded to one of the major forms found in malt while the others, having either low activity or unusually high pI, probably reflect inefficient/incorrect processing. Enzyme kinetic properties and pH activity-dependence of recombinant AMY2 were essentially identical to those of malt AMY2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
20963514	20101022	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Screening and identification of a fungal β-glucosidase and the enzymatic synthesis of gentiooligosaccharide.	After screening with 0.1% esculoside and 0.03% FeCl(3), we identified from rotten wood a fungal isolate HML0366 that produces high amount of β-glucosidase. Phenotypic and rDNA internal transcribed spacer sequence analyses indicated that the isolate belongs to Aspergillus oryzae. The β-glucosidase produced by HML0366 had an activity of 128 U/g. high performance liquid chromatography analysis also demonstrated a high transglycosylation activity of the crude enzyme. The β-glucosidase was stable between pH 4-10 at 60 °C. A gentiobiose yield of 30.86 g/L was achieved within 72 h of the enzymatic reaction at pH 5 and 55 °C using 50% glucose as the substrate. For the first time, we report here the isolation of an A. oryzae strain producing β-glucosidase with high hydrolytic activities. The crude enzyme has a high transglycosylation activity, which enables the enzymatic synthesis of gentiooligosaccharides. 
11748881	20011226	Ann_Agric_Environ_Med	D016428 	Enzymatic activities of Aspergillus fumigatus strains isolated from the air at waste landfills.	Out of 15 Aspergillus fumigatus strains isolated from the air at waste landfills, all revealed cellulolytic and lipolytic activities. Eleven out of 15 strains showed very strong cellulolytic properties, as assessed by the viscosimetric test for endo-1,4-beta-glucanase activity (EGA). None of the examined strains revealed a well-expressed proteolytic activity. The results suggest that Aspergillus fumigatus strains developing in stored wastes produce strong cellulotytic enzymes which need further studies for the potential allergenic and/or immunotoxic effects of these proteins on exposed workers. 
15975908	20050625	Mol._Biol._Cell	D016428 D013485 	Yeast aconitase in two locations and two metabolic pathways: seeing small amounts is believing.	The distribution of identical enzymatic activities between different subcellular compartments is a fundamental process of living cells. At present, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae aconitase enzyme has been detected only in mitochondria, where it functions in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and is considered a mitochondrial matrix marker. We developed two strategies for physical and functional detection of aconitase in the yeast cytosol: 1) we fused the alpha peptide of the beta-galactosidase enzyme to aconitase and observed alpha complementation in the cytosol; and 2) we created an ACO1-URA3 hybrid gene, which allowed isolation of strains in which the hybrid protein is exclusively targeted to mitochondria. These strains display a specific phenotype consistent with glyoxylate shunt elimination. Together, our data indicate that yeast aconitase isoenzymes distribute between two distinct subcellular compartments and participate in two separate metabolic pathways; the glyoxylate shunt in the cytosol and the TCA cycle in mitochondria. We maintain that such dual distribution phenomena have a wider occurrence than recorded currently, the reason being that in certain cases there is a small fraction of one of the isoenzymes, in one of the locations, making its detection very difficult. We term this phenomenon of highly uneven isoenzyme distribution "eclipsed distribution." 
16281555	20051112	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Integration and expression of beta-endoglucanase I from Trichoderma reesei in brewing yeast].	An integration plasmid pA15-PET for expression and secretion of beta-Endoglucanase I (EG I ) in yeast was constructed by insertion of EG I cDNA between yeast alcohol dehydrogenase promoter and terminator region. The plasmid contained part of yeast rDNA sequence, which was used as a homologous fragment for integration. The EG I cDNA was introduced into an engineered brewing yeast BE9711 containing alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase (alpha-ALDC) encoding gene and integrated onto its rDNA sequence of chromosomal DNA by co-transformation of pA15-PET and a YEP type plasmid pA15TXR carrying G418 resistance. The stable engineered brewing yeast expressing intracellulase alpha-ALDC and extracellular EG I simultaneously were obtained. 
1807200	19911001	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 	Determination of the maximum product yield from glucoamylase-producing Aspergillus niger grown in the recycling fermentor.	Aspergillus niger has been grown in glucose- and maltose-limited recycling cultures to determine the maximum growth yield, the maximum product yield for glucoamylase production, and the maintenance requirements at very slow specific growth rates. Using the linear equation for substrate utilization, and using the experimental data from both recycling experiments, both the maximum growth yield, Yxsm, and the maximum product yield, Ypsm, could be determined. The values estimated were 157 g biomass per mol maltose for Yxsm and 100 g protein per mol maltose for Ypsm. Expressed on a C1-basis these values are 0.52 and 0.36 C-mole per C-mol for respectively Yxsm and Ypsm. The found value for Ypsm is half the value found for alkaline serine protease production in Bacillus licheniformis, and it can be concluded that formation of extracellular protein is more energy consuming in filamentous fungi than in prokaryotic organisms. Maintenance requirements are no significant factor during growth of Aspergillus niger, and reported maintenance requirements are most probably due to differentiation. 
15668816	20050126	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Screening of chitin deacetylase from Mucoralean strains (Zygomycetes) and its relationship to cell growth rate.	Chitin deacetylase (CDA) is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of acetamine groups of N-acetyl-D: -glucosamine in chitin, converting it to chitosan in fungal cell walls. In the present study, the activity in batch culture of CDA from six Mucoralean strains, two of them wild type, isolated from dung of herbivores of Northeast Brazil, was screened. Among the strains tested, Cunninghamella bertholletiae IFM 46114 showed a high intracellular enzyme activity of 0.075 U/mg protein after 5 days of culture, and a wild-type strain of Mucor circinelloides showed a high intracellular enzyme activity of 0.060 U/mg protein, with only 2 days of culture, using N-acetylchitopentaose as substrate. This enzyme showed optimal activity at pH 4.5 in 25 mM glutamate-sodium buffer at 50 degrees C, and was stable over 1 h preincubation at the same temperature. The kinetic parameters of CDA did not follow Michaelis-Menten kinetics, but rather Hill affinity distribution, showing probable allosteric behavior. The apparent K(HILL) and Vmax of CDA were 288+/-34 nmol/l and 0.08+/-0.01 U mg protein(-1) min(-1), respectively, using N-acetylchitopentaose as substrate at pH 4.5 at 50 degrees C. 
12111743	20020712	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D023362 D016428 	Alcohol production from starch by mixed cultures of Aspergillus awamori and immobilized Saccharomyces cerevisiae at different agitation speeds.	The influence of different agitation speeds on alcoholic fermentation by free and immobilized cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in a co-culture with free cells of Aspergillus awamori was investigated. Starch hydrolysis and glucose, glucoamylase and alpha-amylase accumulation in the fermentation medium was affected by agitation speed. Maximum amounts of the enzymes were obtained at 150-200 rpm after 72 h where, maximum growth and glucose accumulations were noticed at 200-300 rpm. Alcohol production was stimulated by low agitation speed (50 rpm) and decreased at higher speeds. The results also showed that the amount of produced alcohol was affected by the time of yeast inoculation. When the inoculation of yeast was carried out after the growth of fungi for 72 h, the amounts of produced alcohol increased by 84, 75, 89 and 68% at 50, 100, 150 and 200 rpm, respectively than that produced when the two organisms were inoculated together at the beginning of the fermentation process. A batch culture of the two organisms produced about 2% (v/v) alcohol from 12% (w/v) corn starch in 72 h at 50 rpm. On the other hand, the immobilized yeast and suspended A. awamori produced more alcohol reaching 3.7% (v/v) at 200 rpm under the same cultivation conditions. The fermentation process was less affected by alginate and cell concentrations of the immobilized yeast. Repeated batch fermentation by co-culture of A. awamori and immobilized yeast cells were successfully used for 12 times without a significant loss in alcohol production. 
23269825	20121228	MBio	D016428 D013486 	The Rnf complex of Clostridium ljungdahlii is a proton-translocating ferredoxin:NAD+ oxidoreductase essential for autotrophic growth.	It has been predicted that the Rnf complex of Clostridium ljungdahlii is a proton-translocating ferredoxin:NAD(+) oxidoreductase which contributes to ATP synthesis by an H(+)-translocating ATPase under both autotrophic and heterotrophic growth conditions. The recent development of methods for genetic manipulation of C. ljungdahlii made it possible to evaluate the possible role of the Rnf complex in energy conservation. Disruption of the C. ljungdahlii rnf operon inhibited autotrophic growth. ATP synthesis, proton gradient, membrane potential, and proton motive force collapsed in the Rnf-deficient mutant with H(2) as the electron source and CO(2) as the electron acceptor. Heterotrophic growth was hindered in the absence of a functional Rnf complex, as ATP synthesis, proton gradient, and proton motive force were significantly reduced with fructose as the electron donor. Growth of the Rnf-deficient mutant was also inhibited when no source of fixed nitrogen was provided. These results demonstrate that the Rnf complex of C. ljungdahlii is responsible for translocation of protons across the membrane to elicit energy conservation during acetogenesis and is a multifunctional device also implicated in nitrogen fixation. Mechanisms for energy conservation in the acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii are of interest because of its potential value as a chassis for the production of biocommodities with novel electron donors such as carbon monoxide, syngas, and electrons derived from electrodes. Characterizing the components implicated in the chemiosmotic ATP synthesis during acetogenesis by C. ljungdahlii is a prerequisite for the development of highly productive strains. The Rnf complex has been considered the prime candidate to be the pump responsible for the formation of an ion gradient coupled with ATP synthesis in multiple acetogens. However, experimental evidence for a proton-pumping Rnf complex has been lacking. This study establishes the C. ljungdahlii Rnf complex as a proton-translocating ferredoxin:NAD(+) oxidoreductase and demonstrates that C. ljungdahlii has the potential of becoming a model organism to study proton translocation, electron transport, and other functions of the Rnf complex in energy conservation or other processes. 
15901887	20050520	Occup_Environ_Med	D016428 D016448 	Supermarket baker's asthma: how accurate is routine health surveillance?	Regular health surveillance is commonly recommended for workers exposed to occupational antigens but little is known about how effective it is in identifying cases. To report one large company's surveillance and compare its findings with those of a standard cross-sectional survey in the same workforce. A supermarket company with 324 in-store bakeries producing bread from raw ingredients conducted a three-stage health surveillance programme in around 3000 bakery employees. The first stage involved the administration of a simple respiratory questionnaire. If chest symptoms were present a second questionnaire focusing on their work relationship was administered. If positive a blood sample was requested for the measurement of specific IgE to flour and fungal alpha-amylase. The results were compared to an independent cross-sectional survey of employees in 20 of the company's stores. Two hundred and ninety nine (92%) of the company's bakeries took part in surveillance. The overall employee response for the first stage was 77%; a quarter of those with respiratory symptoms reported that they were work related. Seventy four (61%) of those with work related chest symptoms had a measurement of specific IgE to either flour or fungal alpha-amylase, of whom 30 (41%) had a positive result. Surveillance estimated that 1% of bakery employees (1% bakers, 2% managers, 0.6% confectioners) had work related symptoms with specific IgE. This compared with 4% (7.5% bakers, 3.3% managers, 0% confectioners) in the cross-sectional survey (n = 166, 93% response). Comparison with a standard cross-sectional survey suggests that routine surveillance can underestimate the workplace burden of disease. The reasons may include technical or resource issues and uncertainties over confidentiality or the perceived consequences of participation. More research needs to be done looking into the design and efficacy of surveillance in occupational asthma. 
9335273	19971023	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Altered extent of cross-linking of beta1,6-glucosylated mannoproteins to chitin in Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants with reduced cell wall beta1,3-glucan content.	The yeast cell wall contains beta1,3-glucanase-extractable and beta1,3-glucanase-resistant mannoproteins. The beta1,3-glucanase-extractable proteins are retained in the cell wall by attachment to a beta1,6-glucan moiety, which in its turn is linked to beta1,3-glucan (J. C. Kapteyn, R. C. Montijn, E. Vink, J. De La Cruz, A. Llobell, J. E. Douwes, H. Shimoi, P. N. Lipke, and F. M. Klis, Glycobiology 6:337-345, 1996). The beta1,3-glucanase-resistant protein fraction could be largely released by exochitinase treatment and contained the same set of beta1,6-glucosylated proteins, including Cwp1p, as the B1,3-glucanase-extractable fraction. Chitin was linked to the proteins in the beta1,3-glucanase-resistant fraction through a beta1,6-glucan moiety. In wild-type cell walls, the beta1,3-glucanase-resistant protein fraction represented only 1 to 2% of the covalently linked cell wall proteins, whereas in cell walls of fks1 and gas1 deletion strains, which contain much less beta1,3-glucan but more chitin, beta1,3-glucanase-resistant proteins represented about 40% of the total. We propose that the increased cross-linking of cell wall proteins via beta1,6-glucan to chitin represents a cell wall repair mechanism in yeast, which is activated in response to cell wall weakening. 
17103003	20061115	Plant_Cell_Rep.	D016428 D013486 	Co-bombardment, integration and expression of rice chitinase and thaumatin-like protein genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Conlon).	Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins associated with degradation of structural components of pathogenic filamentous fungi were overexpressed in the two-rowed malting barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivar Conlon. Transgenes were introduced by co-bombardment with two plasmids, one carrying a rice (Oryza sativa L.) chitinase gene (chi11) and another carrying a rice thaumatin-like protein gene (tlp). Each gene was under the control of the maize ubiquitin (Ubi1) promoter. Fifty-eight primary transformants from three independent transformation events were regenerated. T(1) plants with high rice chi11 and tlp protein expression levels were advanced to identify T(2) homozygotes by herbicide spray and subjected to further molecular analyses. T(3) progeny from one event (E2) had stable integration and expression of the rice chi11 and tlp while those from the other events (E1 and E3) showed stable integration only of tlp. The successful production of these lines overexpressing the antifungal chi and tlp proteins provides materials to test the effects of these genes on a variety of fungal diseases that attack barley and to serve as potential additional sources of disease resistance. 
24479310	20140201	Mikrobiol._Z.	D004740 D016428 	[Kinetic characteristics of alpha-L-rhamnosidase of Eupenicillium erubescens].	It was established, as a result of investigations of the alpha-L-rhamnosidase of Eupenicillium erubescens kinetic properties, that K(m) and V(max) for the corresponding synthetic substrate were 1.0 mM and 120 micromol/min/mg of protein, respectively. alpha-L-Rhamnosidase was also competitively inhibited by the reaction product- L-rhamnose, the inhibition constant was 5.2 x 10(-2) M. One could also observe the inhibition of alpha-L-rhamnosidase reaction in the presence of 10(-3) M of glucose. It was shown that the rate of enzymatic hydrolysis of nitrophenyl substrate was directly proportional to the concentration of enzyme, and the increase of the substrate concentration leads to the increase of hydrolysis rate. The substrate concentration being increased above the optimal one (5.0 mg/ml), the reaction rate decreases due to the formation of inactive enzyme-substrate complex FS2. 
22693831	20120615	Mikrobiologiia	D016428 	Production of bio-ethanol from pretreated agricultural byproduct using enzymatic hydrolysis and simultaneous saccharification.	Global warming alerts and threats are on the rise due to the utilization of fossil fuels. Alternative fuel sources like bio-ethanol and biodiesel are being produced to combat against these threats. Bio-ethanol can be produced from a range of substrate. The present study is aimed at the Production of bioethanol from pretreated agricultural substrate using enzymatic hydrolysis and simultaneous saccharification with the addition of purified fungal enzyme. Most cellulosic biomass is not fermentable without appropriate pretreatment methods and so dilute sulfuric acid pretreatment was applied to make the cellulose contained in the waste susceptible to endoglucanase enzyme. A range of acid pretreatment of wheat bran was made in which the sample that was pretreated with 1% dilute sulfuric acid gave maximum yield of ethanol in both methods such as 5.83 g L(-1) and 5.27 g L(-1), respectively. Ethanol produced from renewable and cheap agricultural products (wheat bran) provides reduction in green house gas emission, carbon monoxide, sulfur, and helps to eliminate smog from the environment. 
16784880	20060621	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 	Gene duplication event in family 12 glycosyl hydrolase from Phytophthora spp.	A total of 18 paralogs of xyloglucan-specific endoglucanases (EGLs) from the glycosyl hydrolase family 12 were identified and characterized in Phytophthora sojae and Phytophthora ramorum. These genes encode predicted extracellular enzymes, with sizes ranging from 189 to 435 amino acid residues, that would be capable of hydrolyzing the xyloglucan component of the host cell wall. In two cases, four and six functional copies of these genes were found in tight succession within a region of 5 and 18 kb, respectively. The overall gene copy number and relative organization appeared well conserved between P. sojae and P. ramorum, with apparent synteny in this region of their respective genomes. Phylogenetic analyses of Phytophthora endoglucanases of family 12 and other known members of EGL 12, revealed a close relatedness with a fairly conserved gene sub-family containing, among others, sequences from the fungi Emericella desertorum and Aspergillus aculeatus. This is the first report of family 12 EGLs present in plant pathogenic eukaryotes. 
21786033	20110726	Cell._Mol._Biol._Lett.	D016428 D052061 	Yeast two-hybrid and itc studies of alpha and beta spectrin interaction at the tetramerization site.	Yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) and isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) methods were used to further study the mutational effect of non-erythroid alpha spectrin (αII) at position 22 in tetramer formation with beta spectrin (βII). Four mutants, αII-V22D, V22F, V22M and V22W, were studied. For the Y2H system, we used plasmids pGBKT7, consisting of the cDNA of the first 359 residues at the N-terminal region of αII, and pGADT7, consisting of the cDNA of residues 1697-2145 at the C-terminal region of βII. Strain AH109 yeast cells were used for colony growth assays and strain Y187 was used for β-galactosidase activity assays. Y2H results showed that the C-terminal region of βII interacts with the N-terminal region of αII, either the wild type, or those with V22F, V22M or V22W mutations. The V22D mutant did not interact with βII. For ITC studies, we used recombinant proteins of the αII N-terminal fragment and of the erythroid beta spectrin (βI) C-terminal fragment; results showed that the K(d) values for V22F were similar to those for the wild-type (about 7 nM), whereas the K(d) values were about 35 nM for V22M and about 90 nM for V22W. We were not able to detect any binding for V22D with ITC methods. This study clearly demonstrates that the single mutation at position 22 of αII, a region critical to the function of nonerythroid α spectrin, may lead to a reduced level of spectrin tetramers and abnormal spectrin-based membrane skeleton. These abnormalities could cause abnormal neural activities in cells. 
21152915	20101215	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Glucoamylases: structural and biotechnological aspects.	Glucoamylases, one of the main types of enzymes involved in starch hydrolysis, are exo-acting enzymes that release consecutive glucose units from the non-reducing ends of starch molecules. Glucoamylases are microbial enzymes, present in bacteria, archaea, and fungi but not in plants and animals. Structurally, they are classified in family 15 of glycoside hydrolases and characterised by the invariable presence of a catalytic domain with (α/α)₆-fold, often bound to a non-catalytic domain of diverse origin and function. Fungal glucoamylases are biotechnologically very important as they are used industrially in large amounts and have been extensively studied during the past 30 years. Prokaryotic glucoamylases are of biotechnological relevance for being generally thermophilic enzymes, active at elevated temperatures. 
23724306	20130601	ISRN_Microbiol	D016428 	Impact of Fungicides Chlorothalonil and Propiconazole on Microbial Activities in Groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) Soils.	Introduction of agrochemicals (fungicides) into soil may have lasting effects on soil microbial activities and thus affect soil health. In order to determine the changes in microbial activity in a black clay and red sandy loam soils of groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) cultivated fields, a case study was conducted with propiconazole and chlorothalonil to evaluate its effects on soil enzymes (cellulase and invertase) throughout 40 days of incubation under laboratory conditions with different concentrations (1.0, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, and 10.0 kg ha(-1)). Individual application of the two fungicides at 1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 kg ha(-1) to the soil distinctly enhanced the activities of cellulase and invertase but at higher concentrations of 7.5 and 10 kg ha(-1) was toxic or innocuous to both cellulase and invertase activities. In soil samples receiving 2.5-5.0 kg ha(-1) of the fungicides, the accumulation of reducing sugar was pronounced more at 20 days, and the activity of the cellulase and invertase was drastically decreased with increasing period of incubation up to 30 and 40 days. 
18943437	20081024	Phytopathology	D016428 	Possible Role of Colonization and Cell Wall-Degrading Enzymes in the Differential Ability of Three Ulocladium atrum Strains to Control Botrytis cinerea on Necrotic Strawberry Leaves.	ABSTRACT Ulocladium atrum (strain 385) consistently reduced Botrytis cinerea sporulation on necrotic fragments of strawberry leaves. On these tissues, two strains of U. atrum (isolates 18558 and 18559) showed lower antagonistic activities than the reference strain 385. Colonization of strawberry leaflets by the three U. atrum strains appeared similar in the absence of B. cinerea, whether quantified by chitin or immunological assays. The second method (based on anti-U. atrum antibodies) revealed that strawberry leaflet colonization by U. atrum 385 was better than by the other U. atrum strains in the presence of B. cinerea. An immunoassay using anti-B. cinerea antibodies revealed that the colonization of B. cinerea in tissues was lower in the presence of U. atrum 385 than with the two other U. atrum strains. The enzymatic activities produced by U. atrum 385 during the colonization phases of necrotic tissues were compared to B. cinerea and U. atrum strains 18558 and 18559. U. atrum 385 had the highest lipase, pectate lyase, and cellobiase activities while B. cinerea had the highest endo-beta-1,4-glucanase activity. The study of lytic activities hydrolyzing the fungal cell wall revealed higher beta-1,3-glucanase activity with U. atrum 385, which was stimulated by B. cinerea on necrotic strawberry leaflets. These results suggest that plant and fungal cell wall-degrading enzymes produced by U. atrum 385 may play a complementary role in the competitive colonization of dead strawberry leaves against B. cinerea. 
16910929	20060817	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of cellulase by Aspergillus niger biofilms developed on polyester cloth.	To compare cellulase production by Aspergillus niger ATCC 10864 biofilms on polyester cloth and freely suspended cultures in shaken flasks and microbioreactors of bubble column type. Both shaken flasks and oxygenated microbioreactors containing 40 ml of production medium were used to compare cellulase secretion by free mycelium and biofilm cultures. Free mycelium cultures grew better in flasks than in microbioreactors producing compact and fluffy pellets, respectively, while the opposite was found for biofilm cultures without any visible change in biofilm morphology. Cellulase activities and volumetric productivities attained by biofilms in flask cultures were 70% higher than that produced by free mycelium cultures and threefold higher when biofilms were grown in microbioreactors. Fungal biofilms developed on polyester cloth in both flasks and microbioreactors produce higher cellulase yields and volumetric productivities than free mycelium cultures at lower biomass levels. The results of the present study are of commercial and biological interest. All productivity parameters revealed that fungal biofilms may be used for the production of cellulase and other proteins in various types of bioreactors. Moreover, they may be used as model systems to study differential gene expression related to cell adhesion. 
23532843	20130328	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	The tryptophan residue at the active site tunnel entrance of Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase Cel7A is important for initiation of degradation of crystalline cellulose.	Mutation of Trp-40 in the Cel7A cellobiohydrolase from Trichoderma reesei (TrCel7A) causes a loss of crystalline cellulose-degrading ability. Mutant W40A showed reduced specific activity for crystalline cellulose and diffused the cellulose chain from the entrance of the active site tunnel. Trp-40 is essential for chain end loading to initiate processive hydrolysis of TrCel7A. The mechanisms of crystalline polysaccharide degradation are clarified. The glycoside hydrolase family 7 cellobiohydrolase Cel7A from Trichoderma reesei is one of the best studied cellulases with the ability to degrade highly crystalline cellulose. The catalytic domain and the cellulose-binding domain (CBD) are both necessary for full activity on crystalline substrates. Our previous high-speed atomic force microscopy studies showed that mutation of Trp-40 at the entrance of the catalytic tunnel drastically decreases the ability to degrade crystalline cellulose. Here, we examined the activities of the WT enzyme and mutant W40A (with and without the CBD) for various substrates. Evaluation and comparison of the specific activities of the enzymes (WT, W40A, and the corresponding catalytic subunits (WTcat and W40Acat)) adsorbed on crystalline cellulose indicated that Trp-40 is involved in recruiting individual substrate chains into the active site tunnel to initiate processive hydrolysis. This was supported by molecular dynamics simulation study, i.e. the reducing end glucose unit was effectively loaded into the active site of WTcat, but not into that of W40Acat, when the simulation was started from subsite -7. However, when similar simulations were carried out starting from subsite -5, both enzymes held the substrate for 50 ns, indicating that the major difference between WTcat and W40Acat is the length of the free chain end of the substrate required to allow initiation of processive movements; this also reflects the difference between crystalline and amorphous celluloses. The CBD is important for enhancing the enzyme population on crystalline substrate, but it also decreases the specific activity of the adsorbed enzyme, possibly by attaching the enzyme to non-optimal places on the cellulose surface and/or hindering processive hydrolysis. 
10052158	19990303	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 	Depression of the xylanase-encoding cgxA gene of Chaetomium gracile in Aspergillus nidulans.	Regulation of the Chaetomium gracile xylanase A gene (cgxA) was investigated using Aspergillus nidulans as an intermediate host. Deletion of a 185 bp DNA fragment from its promoter region led to higher levels of the cgxA gene expression, indicating that the 185 bp DNA fragment contains an element involved in repression of the gene. A nuclear extract was assayed for proteins which bind to the 185 bp DNA fragment. A protein designated AnRP bound sequence specifically to the DNA fragment. The minimum sequence required for AnRP binding, 5'TTGACAAAT-3', was determined by means of gel mobility shift assays with various double-stranded oligonucleotides. Furthermore, this sequence repressed the expression of the cgxA gene when inserted at the 5' end of the cgxA gene on pXAH, which was deleted for the repressive element from the promoter region. 
148915	19780503	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D003160 D016428 	Glycogen synthesis in the fungus Neurospora crassa.	An enzymic activity, obtained from Neurospora crassa, catalyzing the incorporation of [14C]glucose from ADP-[14C]glucose into a glucan of the glycogen type, is described. The properties of the ADPglucose : glycogen glucosyltransferase as compared with those of the already known UDP glucose : glycogen glucosyltransferase were studied. The radioactive products obtained with UDP-14C]glucose or ADP-[14C]glucose released all the radioactivity as maltose after alpha or beta amylase treatment. Glucose 6-phosphate stimulated the synthetase when UDP-[14C]glucose was the substrate but the stimulation was much greater with ADP-[14C]glucose as glucosyl donor. Glucose 6-phosphate plus EGTA gave maximal stimulation. The system was completely dependent &on the presence of a 'primer' of the alpha 1 leads to 4 glucan type. 
2415455	19851201	Infect._Immun.	D016428 D013487 	Inhibition of plaque and caries formation by a glucan produced by Streptococcus mutans mutant UAB108.	A mutant (UAB108) derived from Streptococcus mutans UAB66, a spectinomycin-resistant (Spcr) isolate of strain 6715, inhibited plaque formation when grown with strain 6715 in a sucrose medium and also inhibited caries formation in gnotobiotic rats infected with both strain UAB108 and 6715. A substance obtained from UAB108 culture supernatant fluid after ethanol precipitation and DEAE-cellulose treatment, designated glucan 108, inhibited S. mutans 6715 virulence and was shown to be a water-soluble glucan. In the presence of sucrose and increasing concentrations of glucan 108, the activity of a glucosyltransferase (GTase) preparation from S. mutans 6715 to synthesize adhesive water-insoluble glucan (ad-WIG) was inhibited, and the activity to synthesize non-ad-WIG was stimulated. Glucan 108 similarly inhibited sucrose-dependent adherence of heat-treated cells, was a poor inducer of cell aggregation, and inhibited S. mutans 6715-induced dental caries in gnotobiotic rats. In the presence of GTase, glucan 108, and sucrose, the glucose moiety of sucrose was found to be incorporated into glucan 108, and most of this glucose-incorporated glucan 108 was found in the non-ad-WIG fraction. The mode of inhibition of plaque formation by S. mutans 6715 appears to involve a shift from ad-WIG to non-ad-WIG formation. The water-soluble glucan 108 was found to have an approximate molecular weight of 2 X 10(6) and was hydrolyzed by fungal dextranase to yield glucans with an average molecular weight of about 1.2 X 10(4). This glucan (designated glucan 12k) was further hydrolyzed by bacterial dextranase to yield smaller glucans and oligosaccharides, but was refractile to alpha (1----3) glucanase. These results suggest that glucan 108 is a branched alpha (1----6) glucan, and it is proposed that UAB108 is defective in its ability to polymerize glucan 12k with alpha (1----3)-linked glucosyl residues. 
22446315	20120327	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Applying unconventional secretion of the endochitinase Cts1 to export heterologous proteins in Ustilago maydis.	The demand on the biotechnological production of proteins for pharmaceutical, medical and industrial applications is steadily growing. For the production of challenging proteins, we aim to establish a novel expression platform in the well characterized eukaryotic microorganism Ustilago maydis. In filaments of this fungus, secretion of the endochitinase Cts1 depends on mRNA transport along microtubules, which is mediated by the key RNA-binding protein Rrm4. Here, we report two important findings: (i) Cts1 secretion occurs via a novel unconventional route and (ii) this secretory mechanism can be exploited for the export of active heterologous proteins. Initially, we used β-glucuronidase (Gus) as a reporter for unconventional secretion. This bacterial enzyme is inactivated by N-glycosylation during its passage through the conventional eukaryotic secretory pathway. By contrast, in our system Gus was exported in its active form by fusion to Cts1 confirming its secretion by an unconventional route. As a proof-of-principle for economically important biopharmaceuticals we expressed an active single-chain antibody. Importantly, the novel protein export pathway circumvents N-glycosylation which is advantageous in many applications, e.g., to avoid undesired immune reactions in humans. Thus, the unconventional Cts1 secretion machinery has a high potential for the production of biotechnologically relevant proteins. 
23665501	20130514	Mol._Cell_Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and characterization of the glycoside hydrolases that remove xylosyl groups from 7-β-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol and its analogues.	Paclitaxel, a natural antitumor compound, is produced by yew trees at very low concentrations, causing a worldwide shortage of this important anticancer medicine. These plants also produce significant amounts of 7-β-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol, which can be bio-converted into 10-deacetyltaxol for the semi-synthesis of paclitaxel. Some microorganisms can convert 7-β-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol into 10-deacetyltaxol, but the bioconversion yield needs to be drastically improved for industrial applications. In addition, the related β-xylosidases of these organisms have not yet been defined. We set out to discover an efficient enzyme for 10-deacetyltaxol production. By combining the de novo sequencing of β-xylosidase isolated from Lentinula edodes with RT-PCR and the rapid amplification of cDNA ends, we cloned two cDNA variants, Lxyl-p1-1 and Lxyl-p1-2, which were previously unknown at the gene and protein levels. Both variants encode a specific bifunctional β-d-xylosidase/β-d-glucosidase with an identical ORF length of 2412 bp (97% identity). The enzymes were characterized, and their 3.6-kb genomic DNAs (G-Lxyl-p1-1, G-Lxyl-p1-2), each harboring 18 introns, were also obtained. Putative substrate binding motifs, the catalytic nucleophile, the catalytic acid/base, and potential N-glycosylation sites of the enzymes were predicted. Kinetic analysis of both enzymes showed kcat/Km of up to 1.07 s(-1)mm(-1) against 7-β-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol. Importantly, at substrate concentrations of up to 10 mg/ml (oversaturated), the engineered yeast could still robustly convert 7-β-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol into 10-deacetyltaxol with a conversion rate of over 85% and a highest yield of 8.42 mg/ml within 24 h, which is much higher than those reported previously. Therefore, our discovery might lead to significant progress in the development of new 7-β-xylosyl-10-deacetyltaxol-converting enzymes for more efficient use of 7-β-xylosyltaxanes to semi-synthesize paclitaxel and its analogues. This work also might lead to further studies on how these enzymes act on 7-β-xylosyltaxanes and contribute to the growing database of glycoside hydrolases.  
8920899	19961112	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Two regulatory regions controlling basal and cellulose-induced expression of the gene encoding cellobiohydrolase I of Trichoderma reesei are adjacent to its TATA box.	The cellulolytic system of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei is transcriptionally induced in the presence of the insoluble polymer cellulose. Previous studies have demonstrated that induction of the cellulose transcripts by cellulose requires basal expression of its own genes. To understand how basal expression controls cellulose-induced transcription of those genes, we analyzed the 5'-flanking region of the gene encoding cellobiohydrolase I (cbh1), the major member of the cellulase system, for the cis-acting region that is responsible for regulating basal and cellulose-stimulated expression. Using the promoter deletion approach and an appropriate reporter gene, the cis-acting region responsible for cellulose-stimulated transcription was localized between -241 and -72 bp relative to the TATA box. Deletion of this sequence did not affect the basal expression of the promoter, whereas deletion of 72 bp adjacent to the TATA box abolished basal expression of the cbh1 promoter. We therefore concluded that the cbh1 promoter is composed of two regulatory regions-one controls cellulose-induced transcription and the other is required for its basal expression. 
11270575	20010329	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	L-Sorbose induces cellulase gene transcription in the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma reesei.	L-Sorbose has previously been assumed to stimulate cellulase formation in an indirect manner, different from that of sophorose in Trichoderma reesei. Through Northern blot analysis however, L-sorbose was found to regulate coordinately six cellulase genes (including eg13, whose behavior has not been studied so far) at transcriptional level, as is the case with sophorose in T. reesei strains PC-3-7 and QM9414. Dot blot analysis showed that the proportions of each cellulase mRNA to cbh1 mRNA, the largest amount of mRNA transcribed in T. reesei, did not change when L-sorbose or sophorose was used as an inducer in the PC-3-7 and QM9414 strains. cbh2 and egl1 mRNAs were about 45-60% and 20-30% of the cbh1 transcript, whereas small amounts of mRNA, 1-2% of cbh1, were observed on other endoglucanase genes. Furthermore, the PC-3-7 strain showed an enhanced level of cellulase gene transcription, about two- and four- to six-fold higher than that of the QM9414 strain with sophorose and L-sorbose, respectively. 
8662191	19960501	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	A multicopy suppressor gene, MSS10, restores STA2 expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains containing the STA10 repressor gene.	Transcription of the three unlinked, homologous STA1-3 glucoamylase-encoding genes, involved in starch degradation by Saccharomyces cerevisiae, was previously shown to be down-regulated by the presence of STA10, acting via three upstream repression sequence regions that were identified in the STA2 promoter. Here we report the cloning and characterization of a putative transcriptional activator gene, MSS10 (multicopy suppressor of STA10), which, when present in multiple copies, overcomes STA10 repression. Deletion of MSS10, located on chromosome XV, resulted in media-specific extinction of glucoamylase synthesis. The nucleotide sequence of MSS10 is identical to three other genes from S. cerevisiae identified as: FUP1, a gene that enhances iron-limited growth; PHD2, a gene identified for its ability to induce pseudohyphal growth in diploid cells grown on nitrogen-limited media; and MSN1, a gene encoding a transcriptional activator involved in invertase regulation. 
11078955	20001118	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Purification and characterization of alpha-galactosidase from a thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus.	An extracellular alpha-galactosidase was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from a locust bean gum-spent culture fluid of a mannanolytic strain of the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus. Molecular mass of the enzyme is 57 kDa. The pure enzyme which has a glycoprotein nature, afforded several forms on IEF, indicating its microheterogeneity. Isoelectric point of the major form was 5.2. Enzyme is the most active against aryl alpha-D-galactosides but efficiently hydrolyzed alpha-glycosidically linked non-reducing terminal galactopyranosyl residues occurring in natural substrates such as melibiose, raffinose, stachyose, and fragments of galactomannan. In addition, the enzyme is able to catalyze efficient degalactosylation of polymeric galactomannans leading to precipitation of the polymers. Stereochemical course of hydrolysis of two substrates, 4-nitrophenyl alpha-galactopyranoside and galactosyl(1)mannotriose, followed by (1)H NMR spectroscopy, pointed out the alpha-anomer of D-galactose was the primary product of hydrolysis from which the beta-anomer was formed by mutarotation. Hence the enzyme is a retaining glycosyl hydrolase. In accord with its retaining character the enzyme catalyzed transgalactosylation from 4-nitrophenyl alpha-galactopyranoside as a glycosyl donor. Amino acid sequence alignment of N-terminal and two internal sequences suggested that the enzyme is a member of family 27 of glycosyl hydrolases. 
9308184	19971006	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Phenotypic characterization of a Candida albicans strain deficient in its major exoglucanase.	Both alleles of the XOG1 gene of Candida albicans, which encodes a protein with exoglucanase activity, were sequentially disrupted. Enzymic analysis of either cell extracts or culture supernatants of disrupted strains revealed that this gene is responsible for the major exoglucanase activity in C. albicans, although residual exoglucanase activity could still be detected. xog1 null mutants showed similar growth rates in both rich and minimal liquid medium as compared to the wild-type strain, indicating that the enzyme is not essential for C. albicans growth. In addition, no differences were observed between wild-type and xog1 null mutants with respect to their ability to undergo dimorphic transition. However, small but repeatable differences were found between the wild-type and the null mutant with respect to susceptibility to chitin and glucan synthesis inhibitors. Using a murine model of experimental infection, no significant differences in virulence were observed. The xog1 null strain is thus a suitable recipient for studying Candida gene expression using the exoglucanase as a reporter gene. 
9537764	19980416	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	The role of autolysins during vegetative growth of Bacillus subtilis 168.	A set of isogenic mutants of Bacillus subtilis 168, insertionally inactivated in the genes encoding a number of lytic enzymes and a sigma factor (sigma D, which controls the expression of a number of autolysins) was constructed. Phenotypic analysis of the mutants determined the individual and combined roles of the autolysins in vegetative growth. The major vegetative autolysins of B. subtilis, LytC (50 kDa amidase) and LytD (90 kDa glucosaminidase), were shown to have roles in cell separation, cell wall turnover, antibiotic-induced lysis and motility. LytC was also shown to have a role in general cell lysis induced by sodium azide. Renaturing SDS-PAGE of cell-wall-binding protein extracts of the mutant strains revealed the presence of a novel autolysin that was previously masked by LytC. This 49 kDa enzyme was shown to be sigma D-controlled and was identified as a candidate cell separation and cell wall turnover enzyme. A multiple mutant strain, lacking LytC, LytD and the 49 kDa enzyme, retained at least ten bands of autolytic activity. These may correspond to individual or proteolytically processed novel autolysins, the functions of which are unknown. The multiple mutant strains facilitate the study of these, and other lytic enzymes, to determine their cellular functions. 
9866173	19981229	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Repression of the expression of genes encoding xylanolytic enzymes in Aspergillus oryzae by introduction of multiple copies of the xynF1 promoter.	A xylanase gene, xynF1, was cloned and characterized from a shoyu koji mould Aspergillus oryzae KBN616. The xynF1 gene was found to be comprised of 1484 bp with ten introns. The deduced amino acid sequence encodes a protein consisting of 327 amino acids (35,402 Da) which is very similar to the fungal family F xylanases such as Aspergillus nidulans XlnC, Aspergillus kawachii XynA and Penicillium chrysogenum XylP. The intron/exon organization of xynF1 is very similar to that of the fungal family F xylanase genes. Plasmid pXPR64, which contains 64 copies of the xynF1 promoter region (PxynF1) in the same direction, was constructed and introduced into A. oryzae. This led to reduced expression of both xylanase and beta-xylosidase genes in the transformants. 
19783787	20090929	Am._J._Respir._Cell_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Characterization of PCEng2, a {beta}-1,3-endoglucanase homolog in Pneumocystis carinii with activity in cell wall regulation.	Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia is an opportunistic fungal infection that causes severe respiratory impairment in immunocompromised patients. The viability of Pneumocystis organisms is dependent on the cyst cell wall, a structural feature that is regulated by essential cell wall-associated enzymes. The formation of the glucan-rich cystic wall has been previously characterized, but glucan degradation in the organism-specifically, degradation during trophic excystment-is not yet fully understood. Most studies of basic Pneumocystis biology have been conducted in Pneumocystis carinii or Pneumocystis murina, the varieties of this genus that infect rats and mice, respectively. Furthermore, all known treatments for P. jirovecii were initially discovered through studies of P. carinii. Accordingly, in this study, we have identified a P. carinii beta-1,3-endoglucanase gene (PCEng2) that is demonstrated to play a significant role in cell wall regulation. The cDNA sequence contained a 2.2-kb open reading frame with conserved amino acid domains homologous to similar fungal glycosyl hydrolases (GH family 81). The gene transcript showed up-regulation in cystic isolates, and the expressed protein was detected within both cyst and trophic forms. Complementation assays in Eng2-deleted Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains showed restoration of the cell wall separation defect during proliferation, demonstrating the importance of PCEng2 protein. during fungal growth. These findings suggest that regulation of cyst cell wall beta-glucans is a fundamental process during completion of the Pneumocystis life cycle. 
10467123	19990901	Biotechnol._Appl._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and biochemical characteristics of beta-D-glucosidase from a thermophilic fungus, Thermomyces lanuginosus-SSBP.	The beta-D-glucosidase produced by Thermomyces lanuginosus-SSBP was purified to apparent homogeneity. The purified enzyme consisted of two identical subunits with a native molecular mass of 200 kDa. The purified beta-D-glucosidase only hydrolysed the glucoside substrates containing a terminal, non-reducing beta-D-glucose residue and was active on both aryl-beta-glucoside and cellobiose. This enzyme also exhibited less, but significant alpha-D-glucosidase activity and was capable of hydrolysing beta-1,6-linked diglucosides and gentiobiose. The Kapp m, V(max) and k(cat) values for p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside were calculated to be 0.075 mM, 12.12 units/mg of protein and 44.44 glucose molecules released/s respectively. The beta-D-glucosidase retained its full activity after a 30 min incubation at 50 degrees C but was inactive after the same treatment at 70 degrees C. The enzyme appeared to be stable when the pH of the storage buffer was above 5.0. Maximal beta-D-glucosidase activity occurred at 65 degrees C and pH 6.0. This enzyme was competitively inhibited by glucose, cellobiose and salicin with K(i) values of 0.55, 0.52 and 0.81 mM respectively. The presence of Hg(2+) and N-bromosuccinimide inhibited the enzyme activity completely at 2 mM, while cysteine enhanced beta-D-glucosidase activity. 
17341093	20070308	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Kinetics of the inhibition of fusarium serine proteinases by barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) inhibitors.	Fungal infections of barley and wheat cause devastating losses of these food crops. The endogenous proteinase inhibitors produced by plant seeds probably defend the plants from pathogens by inhibiting the degradation of their proteins by the pathogen proteases. We have studied the interactions of barley grain inhibitors with the subtilisin-like and trypsinlike proteinases of Fusarium culmorum. The inhibition kinetics of three inhibitor proteins, chymotrypsin/subtilisin inhibitor 2 (CI-2), barley alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitor (BASI), and Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibitor (BBBI), have been studied in detail for the first time using fungal enzymes. The kinetic studies were performed at physiological pH values to mimic in vivo conditions. Numerical approaches to kinetic analyses were used to calculate the inhibition constants, because the data analyses were complicated by some inhibitor turnover and the instability of enzymes and substrates. All were slow, tight-binding inhibitors that followed either a two-step mechanism (CI-2 and BASI) or a single-step mechanism (BBBI) under the conditions investigated. The overall Ki values derived were approximately 50 pM, 1 nM, and 0.1 nM for CI-2, BASI, and BBBI, respectively. The main difference between the CI-2 and the BASI inhibitions was accounted for by the stabilities of their final complexes and the rate constants for their second dissociation steps (9 x 10(-6)/s and 3 x 10(-4)/s, respectively). Understanding the inhibition mechanisms will be valuable in designing improved strategies for increasing the resistance of the grains to fungal infections. 
17995733	20071113	J._Food_Sci.	D016428 	Application of statistical experimental design to optimize culture requirements of Aspergillus sp. Zh-26 producing xylanase for degradation of arabinoxylans in mashing.	The objective of this study was to isolate and characterize a strain of Aspergillus capable of producing xylanase. According to the morphology and comparison of ITS (Internal Transcribed Spacer) rDNA gene sequence, the strain Aspergillus sp. ZH-26 was identified as a strain of Aspergillus awamori. Statistically based experimental designs were applied for the optimization of xylanase production from A. awamori ZH-26. The considered medium components included 17 components as follows: yeast extract, tryptone, urea, NH(4)Cl, (NH(4))(2)SO(4), NaNO(3), KH(2)PO(4), K(2)HPO(4), NH(4)NO(3), MgSO(4), CaCl(2), CuSO(4), ZnCl(2), FeSO(4), MnSO(4), vitamin B(1), and EDTA. Yeast extract, tryptone, (NH(4))(2)SO(4), KH(2)PO(4), and CaCl(2) were identified to have significant effects on xylanase production using the Plackett-Burman experimental design. These 5 major components were subsequently optimized using the Box-Behnken experimental design. By response surface methodology and canonical analysis, the optimal concentrations for higher production of xylanase were yeast extract 5.95 g/L, tryptone 6.79 g/L, (NH(4))(2)SO(4) 13.37 g/L, KH(2)PO(4) 1.14 g/L, CaCl(2) 0.81 g/L. Under optimal conditions, the xylanase activity from A. awamori ZH-26 reached 47.3 U/mL. A small-scale mashing was carried out to evaluate the performance of the xylanase on degradation of arabinoxylans in mashing. Results showed that polymeric arabinoxylan content and wort viscosity in mashing with grist containing wheat malt sharply decreased to the basal level (from 470 to 185 mg/L) with the addition of xylanase. 
8528071	19950901	Protein_Sci.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	The structure of human pancreatic alpha-amylase at 1.8 A resolution and comparisons with related enzymes.	The structure of human pancreatic alpha-amylase has been determined to 1.8 A resolution using X-ray diffraction techniques. This enzyme is found to be composed of three structural domains. The largest is Domain A (residues 1-99, 169-404), which forms a central eight-stranded parallel beta-barrel, to one end of which are located the active site residues Asp 197, Glu 233, and Asp 300. Also found in this vicinity is a bound chloride ion that forms ligand interactions to Arg 195, Asn 298, and Arg 337. Domain B is the smallest (residues 100-168) and serves to form a calcium binding site against the wall of the beta-barrel of Domain A. Protein groups making ligand interactions to this calcium include Asn 100, Arg 158, Asp 167, and His 201. Domain C (residues 405-496) is made up of anti-parallel beta-structure and is only loosely associated with Domains A and B. It is notable that the N-terminal glutamine residue of human pancreatic alpha-amylase undergoes a posttranslational modification to form a stable pyrrolidone derivative that may provide protection against other digestive enzymes. Structure-based comparisons of human pancreatic alpha-amylase with functionally related enzymes serve to emphasize three points. Firstly, despite this approach facilitating primary sequence alignments with respect to the numerous insertions and deletions present, overall there is only approximately 15% sequence homology between the mammalian and fungal alpha-amylases. Secondly, in contrast, these same studies indicate that significant structural homology is present and of the order of approximately 70%. Thirdly, the positioning of Domain C can vary considerably between alpha-amylases. In terms of the more closely related porcine enzyme, there are four regions of polypeptide chain (residues 237-250, 304-310, 346-354, and 458-461) with significantly different conformations from those in human pancreatic alpha-amylase. At least two of these could play a role in observed differential substrate and cleavage pattern specificities between these enzymes. Similarly, amino acid differences between human pancreatic and salivary alpha-amylases have been localized and a number of these occur in the vicinity of the active site. 
18438008	20080429	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Cloning of beta-1,3-glucanase gene from Trichoderma virid LTR-2 and its expression in Pichia pastoris].	Text We designed a pair of primers according to fungal glucanase genes obtained from GenBank and cloned a novel beta-1,3-glucanase gene (glu) from Trichoderma virid LTR-2 cDNA by PCR. Then we linked the fragment with pMD18-T vector and sequenced it. The sequence analysis indicated that glu was composed of 2289 nucleotide residues. The fragment contained an Open Reading Frame coding 762 amino acids and was similar to previous reports. Translated amino acids sequence of glu contained two Conservative Districts of beta-1,3-glucanase which were RVVYIPPGTY and AASQNKVAYF. By nucleotide blasting in NCBI glu showed high homology to three beta-1,3-glucanase genes from Trichoderma sp., especially with T.harzianum bgn3.1 and Hypocrea virens bgn13.1, which the homology reached 93%. The sequence was submitted to GenBank and the Accession Number is EF176582. Then we connected glu gene with the Pichia pastoris shuttle vector-pPIC9K. The recombinant plasmid named pGLU14 was transformed into methylotropic yeast P. pastoris KM71 after linearization. The recombinant strain KGLU14 expressing beta-1,3-glucanase at high level was obtained through plate screening. The SDS-PAGE result indicated that molecular weight of the recombinant beta-1,3-glucanase was about 80kDa and the activity of the recombinant enzyme could reach 889U/mL in liquid culture. 
15977070	20050625	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 	Enzymatic degradation of dibutyl phthalate and toxicity of its degradation products.	Dibutyl phthalate (DBP) was more efficiently degraded by cutinase compared to yeast esterase; i.e. almost 80% of initial DBP (500 mg l(-1)) was decomposed within 7.5 h, and nearly 50% of the degraded DBP disappeared within the initial 30 min. The toxicity of the final DBP degradation products were investigated using various recombinant bioluminescent bacteria. Butyl methyl phthalate, the major product of degradation by the esterase, was an oxidative toxic hazard that damaged protein synthesis. 
674113	19780501	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Cellulolytic activity of the thermotolerant fungus Aspergillus terreus 17p during submerged cultivation].	It has been demonstrated that the thermotolerant fungus Aspergillus terreus 17P can actively grow and produce a complex of cellulolytic enzymes on the dense nutrient medium consisting of straw (45%), wheat bran (45%), malt shoots (10%) and wet mineral supplements. The cultivation temperature is 40 degrees C, pH--5.6--6.0 and humidity of the medium--60--65%. 
22128148	20111201	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulases dig deep: in situ observation of the mesoscopic structural dynamics of enzymatic cellulose degradation.	Enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose is key for the production of second generation biofuels, which represent a long-standing leading area in the field of sustainable energy. Despite the wealth of knowledge about cellulase structure and function, the elusive mechanism by which these enzymes disintegrate the complex structure of their insoluble substrate, which is the gist of cellulose saccharification, is still unclear. We herein present a time-resolved structural characterization of the action of cellulases on a nano-flat cellulose preparation, which enabled us to overcome previous limitations, using atomic force microscopy (AFM). As a first step in substrate disintegration, elongated fissures emerge which develop into coniform cracks as disintegration continues. Detailed data analysis allowed tracing the surface evolution back to the dynamics of crack morphology. This, in turn, reflects the interplay between surface degradation inside and outside of the crack. We observed how small cracks evolved and initially increased in size. At a certain point, the crack diameter stagnated and then started decreasing again. Stagnation corresponds with a decrease in the total amount of surface which is fissured and thus leads to the conclusion that the surface hydrolysis "around" the cracks is proceeding more rapidly than inside the cracks. The mesoscopic view presented here is in good agreement with various mechanistic proposals from the past and allows a novel insight into the structural dynamics occurring on the cellulosic substrate through cellulase action. 
24455865	20140125	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D016428 D013485 	Inducing effect of salicin for extracellular endoglucanase synthesis in Rhizopus oryzae PR7 MTCC 9642.	The induction of endoglucanase of Rhizopus oryzae PR7 MTCC 9642 has been observed in cultivation medium using a batch-fermentation technique. The effect of various experimental parameters such as use various carbon sources as inducers, concentration of inducer and effect of different additives were investigated. Salicin at concentrations from 0.25 to 0.75% (w/v) was found to bring about a remarkable increase in endoglucanase synthesis when used as a sole carbon source and thought to act as a gratuitous inducer of the enzyme. Endoglucanase activity increased within 24 h after the addition of salicin, reached maximum after 48 h and maintained high level even after 120 h of fungal growth. Repression of enzyme synthesis by glucose could partially be restored by addition of salicin at an early phase of growth. The carboxymethyl cellulose induced enzyme was inhibited by cyclohexamide and ethidium bromide and partially recovered by the salicin which indicated that salicin might act at the transcriptional but not translational level. 
20722923	20100821	J._Food_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	High pressure inactivation kinetics of a Thermomyces lanuginosus xylanase evaluated as a process indicator.	The potential use of Thermomyces lanuginosus xylanase to develop a pressure-temperature-time integrator (PTTI) for high pressure processing was investigated. The combined effect of pressure and temperature on the inactivation of xylanase was studied in the pressure range of 100 to 600 MPa and temperature range of 50 to 70 degrees C. A synergistic effect of pressure and temperature was observed. Xylanase inactivation at the studied processing conditions followed first-order kinetics and was found to be very sensitive to changes in pressure and temperature. The values of activation energy and activation volume were estimated as 92.8 kJ/mol and -23.3 mL/mol at a reference pressure of 450 MPa and a reference temperature of 60 degrees C, respectively. A mathematical model of xylanase inactivation, having as variables time, pressure, and temperature allows the calculation of remaining enzyme activity at any combination of processing conditions within the studied domain. Practical Application: To ensure the optimization and control of high pressure processing, evaluation of the process impact on both safety and quality attributes of foods is essential. Enzymes can serve as effective tools in evaluating the impact of high pressure processes of foods. 
12882638	20030729	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 	Isolation and properties of pectinases from the fungus Aspergillus japonicus.	Using anion-exchange chromatography on different carriers and phenyl-Sepharose hydrophobic chromatography, five pectolytic enzymes were isolated from the culture liquid of a mutant strain of Aspergillus japonicus: two endo-polygalacturonases (I and II, 38 and 65 kD, pI 5.6 and 3.3), pectin lyase (50 kD, pI 3.8), and two pectinesterases (I and II) with similar molecular weights (46 and 47 kD) and the same pI (3.8). The pectinesterases apparently represent two isoforms of the same enzyme. All purified enzymes were homogenous according to SDS-PAGE and polyacrylamide gel-IEF, except for endo-polygalacturonase II that gave two bands on isoelectric focusing, but one band on electrophoresis. All enzymes had maximal activity in an acid medium (at pH 4.0-5.5). The pectin lyase and pectinesterase were stable at 40-50 degrees C. The thermal stability of both endo-polygalacturonases was much lower (after 3 h of incubation at 30 degrees C, endo-polygalacturonases I and II lost 40 and 10% of the activity, respectively). The activity of endo-polygalacturonases I and II towards polygalacturonic acid strongly depended on NaCl concentration (optimal concentration of the salt was 0.1-0.2 M); the enzymes were also capable of reducing the viscosity of pectin solution, but rather slowly. The pectin lyase had no activity towards polygalacturonic acid. The activity of the pectin lyase increased with increasing degree of methylation of pectins. Both endo-polygalacturonases demonstrated synergism with the pectinesterase during the hydrolysis of highly methylated pectin. On the contrary, in the mixture of pectin lyase and pectinesterase an antagonism between the two enzymes was observed. 
10725170	20000322	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Solid-state bioconversion of phenolics from cranberry pomace and role of Lentinus edodes beta-glucosidase.	Cranberry pomace contains large amounts of phenolic glycosides, which are important sources of free phenolics that have many food uses such as antioxidants, flavorings, and nutraceuticals. Our hypothesis was that these glycosides in cranberry pomace could be hydrolyzed by beta-glucosidase produced by Lentinus edodes during solid-state fermentation. On the basis of this hypothesis, our objective was to investigate the potential of using cranberry pomace as a substrate for the production of free phenolics and beta-glucosidase through solid-state fermentation by a food-grade fungus L. edodes. Our results suggested that L. edodes beta-glucosidase played a major role in release of phenolic aglycons from cranberry pomace during solid-state fermentation. After 50 days of cultivation, the yield of total free phenolics reached the maximum of 0.5 mg per g of pomace, while the beta-glucosidase activity was about 9 units per g of pomace. The enzyme exhibited optimal activity at 60 degrees C and at pH 3.5 and was stable at temperatures up to 50 degrees C and between pH 3 and 6.5. The major free phenolics produced from cranberry pomace were identified by HPLC as gallic acid, chlorogenic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, and p-coumaric acid. These results suggest that cranberry pomace is a potential substrate for producing food-grade phenolics and fungal beta-glucosidase. The L. edodes beta-glucosidase showed good stability and tolerance to low pH and, therefore has potential applications in wine and juice processing for aroma and flavor enrichment through enzymatic hydrolysis of glucoside precursors. 
16478251	20060216	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic degradation of oligosaccharides in pinto bean flour.	The use of dry edible beans is limited due to the presence of flatulence factors, the raffinose oligosaccharides. Our objective was to investigate the process for the removal of oligosaccharides from pinto bean using enzymatic treatment and to compare it to removal by soaking and cooking methods. Crude enzyme preparation was produced by six fungal species on wheat bran- and okara-based substrates with soy tofu whey. The loss of raffinose oligosaccharides after soaking pinto beans for 16 h at the room temperature was 10%, after cooking for 90 min was 52%, and after autoclaving for 30 min was 58%. On the other hand, the treatment using crude alpha-galactosidase (60 U mL(-1)) produced by Aspergillus awamori NRRL 4869 from wheat bran-based substrate with soy tofu whey on pinto bean flour for 2 h completely hydrolyzed raffinose oligosaccharides. These results supported that the enzymatic treatment was the most effective among various processing methods tested for removing the raffinose oligosaccharides, and hence, crude alpha-galactosidases from fungi have potential use in the food industry. 
11812226	20020129	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of an ethylene-induced antifungal protein from leaves of guilder rose (Hydrangea macrophylla).	An ethylene-induced, chitin-binding protein (designated as HM30) from leaves of Hydrangea macrophylla was identified and purified to apparent homogeneity by chitin affinity chromatography followed by FPLC on a Superose 12 column. The molecular mass of HM30 was 30,010.0 Da determined by mass spectrometry and its isoelectric point of 8.4 was estimated by isoelectric focusing. The amino acid composition of HM30 was also determined. The initial 15 amino acid residues of the N-terminal were found to be N-S-M-E-R-V-E-E-L-R-K-K-L-Q-D by automatic Edman degradation. This chitin-binding protein showed antifungal activity toward several crop fungal pathogens. Knowledge of properties of HM30 should be useful for its potential application as a plant fungicidal agent. 
9226959	19970523	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Enhancement of recombinant glucoamylase expression by introducing yeast GAL7 mRNA termination sequence.	Glucoamylase gene (STA1) of Saccharomyces diastaticus was expressed in recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae systems. The yeast, GAL7 mRNA termination sequence, was introduced in the 3' noncoding region of the STA1 structural gene which was under the control of the SUC2 promoter and STA1 secretion signal sequence. This plasmid was named YEpSSG7 and was introduced into yeast S. cerevisiae MMY2 to construct recombinant S. cerevisiae MMY2SSG7. The GAL7 mRNA termination sequence enhanced the glucoamylase expression level by 3-5 times depending on the culture conditions compared to the result from the strain S. cerevisiae MMY2SUCSTA which did not contain the GAL7 mRNA termination sequence. Such an enhancement was not due to plasmid stability or plasmid copy number effects. Such an enhancement was primarily due to the fact that GAL7 mRNA termination sequence stabilized the STA1 mRNA 3' end. 
106849	19790101	Biochem._J.	D016428 	The cellulolytic enzymes of Botryodiplodia theobromae Pat. Separation and characterization of cellulases and beta-glucosidases.	1. Filtrates from cultures of different ages of Botryodiplodia theobromae Pat. were fractionated by gel filtration, ion-exchange chromatography and polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. 2. Five cellulases (C1, C2, C3, C4 and C5) were found, and their molecular weights, estimated by gel filtration, were 46000-48000 (C1), 30000-35000 (C2), 15000-18000 (C3), 10000-11000 (C4) and 4800-5500 (C5). 3. Cellulase C5 was absent from old culture filtrates. 4. Cellulase C1 had little or no activity on CM-cellulose (viscometric assay), but degraded cotton flock and Whatman cellulose powder to give cellobiose only. 5. The other components (C2-C5) produced cellobiose and smaller amounts of glucose and cellotriose from cellulosic substrates and were more active in lowering the viscosity of CM-cellulose. 6. The ratio of activities assayed by viscometry and by the release of reducing sugars from CM-cellulose increased with decrease in the molecular weights of cellulases C2-C5. 7. Cellobiose inhibited the activities of the cellulases, but glucose stimulated at low concentrations although it inhibited at high concentrations. 8. A high-molecular-weight beta-glucosidase (component B1, mol.wt. 350000-380000) predominated in filtrates from young cultures, but a low-molecular-weight enzyme (B4, mol.wt. 45000-47000) predominated in older filtrates. 9. Intermediate molecular species of beta-glucosidase (B2, mol.wt. 170000-180000; B3, mol.wt. 83000-87000) were also found. 10. Cellulases C2-C5 acted in synergism with C1, particularly in the presence of beta-glucosidase. 
18155243	20071225	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Crystal structure of Aspergillus niger isopullulanase, a member of glycoside hydrolase family 49.	An isopullulanase (IPU) from Aspergillus niger ATCC9642 hydrolyzes alpha-1,4-glucosidic linkages of pullulan to produce isopanose. Although IPU does not hydrolyze dextran, it is classified into glycoside hydrolase family 49 (GH49), major members of which are dextran-hydrolyzing enzymes. IPU is highly glycosylated, making it difficult to obtain its crystal. We used endoglycosidase H(f) to cleave the N-linked oligosaccharides of IPU, and we here determined the unliganded and isopanose-complexed forms of IPU, both solved at 1.7-A resolution. IPU is composed of domains N and C joined by a short linker, with electron density maps for 11 or 12 N-acetylglucosamine residues per molecule. Domain N consists of 13 beta-strands and forms a beta-sandwich. Domain C, where the active site is located, forms a right-handed beta-helix, and the lengths of the pitches of each coil of the beta-helix are similar to those of GH49 dextranase and GH28 polygalacturonase. The entire structure of IPU resembles that of a GH49 enzyme, Penicillium minioluteum dextranase (Dex49A), despite a difference in substrate specificity. Compared with the active sites of IPU and Dex49A, the amino acid residues participating in subsites +2 and +3 are not conserved, and the glucose residues of isopanose bound to IPU completely differ in orientation from the corresponding glucose residues of isomaltose bound to Dex49A. The shape of the catalytic cleft characterized by the seventh coil of the beta-helix and a loop from domain N appears to be critical in determining the specificity of IPU for pullulan. 
10779876	20000426	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Inactivation of maltose permease and maltase in sporulating Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Maltose transport and maltase activities were inactivated during sporulation of a MAL constitutive yeast strain harboring different MAL loci. Both activities were reduced to almost zero after 5 h of incubation in sporulation medium. The inactivation of maltase and maltose permease seems to be related to optimal sporulation conditions such as a suitable supply of oxygen and cell concentration in the sporulating cultures, and occurs in the fully derepressed conditions of incubation in the sporulation acetate medium. The inactivation of maltase and maltose permease under sporulation conditions in MAL constitutive strains suggests an alternative mechanism for the regulation of the MAL gene expression during the sporulation process. 
1336029	19921001	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Nutrient-induced activation of trehalase in nutrient-starved cells of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae: cAMP is not involved as second messenger.	Starvation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells for specific nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphate or sulphate causes arrest in the G1 phase of the cell cycle at a specific point called 'start'. Re-addition of different nitrogen sources, phosphate or sulphate to such starved cells causes activation of trehalase within a few minutes. Nitrogen-source- and sulphate-induced activation of trehalase were not associated with any change in the cAMP level, but in the case of phosphate there was a small transient increase. When nitrogen-source-activated trehalase was isolated by immuno-affinity chromatography from crude extracts, the purified enzyme showed the same activity profile as in the original crude extracts, indicating that post-translational modification is responsible for the activation. In the yeast mutants cdc25-5 and cdc35-10, which are temperature sensitive for cAMP synthesis, incubation at the restrictive temperature lowered but did not prevent nitrogen-, phosphate- or sulphate-induced activation of trehalase. Since under these conditions the cAMP level in the cells is very low, it is unlikely that cAMP acts as a second messenger in this nutrient-induced effect. Nitrogen-source-induced activation of trehalase requires the presence of glucose at a concentration similar to that able to stimulate the RAS-adenylate cyclase pathway. This indicates that the same glucose-sensing system might be involved in both phenomena. Nitrogen-starved cells fractionated according to cell size all showed nitrogen-source-induced activation of trehalase to the same extent, indicating that the nitrogen-induced signalling pathway involved is not dependent on the well-known cell size requirement for progression over the start point of the cell cycle. 
9684370	19980731	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Enhanced transgenic plant resistance to nematodes by dual proteinase inhibitor constructs.	Plant defence strategies usually involve the action of several gene products. Transgenic resistance strategies are likely to have enhanced efficacy when they involve more than one transgene. Here we explore possible mechanisms for the co-delivery of multiple effectors via a single transgene. As an example we report the co-delivery of two distinct proteinase inhibitors in Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. to examine resistance against plant parasitic nematodes. A cysteine and serine proteinase inhibitor have been joined as translational fusions by one of two peptide linkers. One linker, part of the spacer region of a plant metallothionein-like protein (PsMTa), was selected to be cleaved in planta. A second linker, derived from the fungal enzyme galactose oxidase (GO) was chosen to be refractory to cleavage in planta. Western blot analysis of cell extracts confirmed the expected pattern of predominantly single inhibitors derived from the PsMTa construct and a primarily dual inhibitor from the GO construct. Analysis of cyst and root-knot nematodes recovered from transgenic Arabidopsis expressing inhibitors as single or dual molecules revealed the uptake of inhibitors with the exception of those linked by the PsMTa linker. This unexpected result may be due to residues of the PsMTa linker interacting with cell membranes. Despite lack of ingestion, PsMTa-linked cowpea trypsin inhibitor (CpTI) affected the sexual development of the cyst nematodes, indicating an external site of action. The engineered cystatin (Oc-I delta D86) component from the PsMTa constuct had no effect, indicating that ingestion is necessary for the cystatin to be effective. The delivery of dual inhibitors linked by the GO linker showed a clear additive effect over either inhibitor delivered singly. The application of this technology to other plant pathogens is discussed. 
3130804	19880515	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 D013486 	Purification and characterization of cutinase from a fluorescent Pseudomonas putida bacterial strain isolated from phyllosphere.	Cutinase, an extracellular enzyme, was induced by cutin in a fluorescent Pseudomonas putida strain that was found to be cohabiting with an apparently nitrogen-fixing Corynebacterium. This enzyme was purified from the culture fluid by acetone precipitation followed by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose, QAE-Sephadex, Sepharose 6B, and Sephadex G-100. The purified enzyme showed a single band when subjected to polyacrylamide electrophoresis and the enzymatic activity coincided with the protein band. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide electrophoresis showed a single band at a molecular weight of 30,000 and gel filtration of the native enzyme through a calibrated Sephadex G-100 column indicated a molecular weight of 30,000, showing that the enzyme is a monomer. The amino acid composition of bacterial cutinase is distinctly different from that of fungal or plant cutinases. This bacterial cutinase showed a broad pH optimum between 8.5 and 10.5 with 3H-labeled apple cutin as the substrate. Linear rates of cutin hydrolysis were measured up to 20 min of incubation time and 4 mg/ml of cutin gave the maximum hydrolysis rate. This cutinase catalyzed hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl esters of C4 to C16 fatty acids with decreasing V and increasing Km for the longer chain esters. It did not hydrolyze tripalmitoyl glycerol or trioleyl glycerol, indicating that this is not a general lipase. Active serine-directed reagents such as organophosphates and organoboronic acids severely inhibited the enzyme, suggesting that bacterial cutinase is an "active serine" enzyme. Neither thiol-directed reagents nor metal ion chelators had any effect on this enzyme. Antibody raised against purified enzyme gave a single precipitin line on Ouchterlony double diffusion analysis. Western blot analysis of the extracellular fluid of induced Ps. putida showed a single band at 30 kDa. No immunological cross-reactivity was detected between the present bacterial enzyme and the fungal enzyme from Fusarium solani pisi when rabbit antibodies against either enzyme was used. 
8579830	19951201	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	The cellulase system of the anaerobic rumen fungus Neocallimastix frontalis: studies on the properties of fractions rich in endo-(1-->4)-beta-D-glucanase activity.	Seven fractions rich in endoglucanase activity were separated from the extracellular cellulase system of the anaerobic rumen fungus Neocallimastix frontalis. The fractions (ES1, ES3, ES2U1, ES2U2, ES2U4, ES2U3C1 and ES2U3C2) were separated from each other and from a fraction that could solubilize crystalline cellulose (the so-called crystalline-cellulose-solubilizing component, CCSC) by the sequential use of differential adsorption on the microcrystalline cellulose Avicel, gel filtration and affinity chromatography on concanavalin-A-Sepharose. The molecular masses of the endoglucanase fractions, when determined by gel filtration, were 64, 30, 61, 113, 17, 38 and 93 kDa respectively. Each enzyme degraded carboxymethylcellulose and was rich in activity to cellulose swollen in phosphoric acid to break the hydrogen bonding: cellobiose, cellotriose and cellotetraose were released in differing proportions. Each fraction showed a characteristic gradient when the capacity of each enzyme to increase the fluidity of a solution of carboxymethylcellulose was plotted against the increase in reducing power of the solution. Although neither endoglucanase fraction, acting in isolation, could degrade crystalline cellulose, three of the fractions (ES1, ES3 and ES2U1) could act synergistically with the CCSC fraction in this regard. Remarkably, the same three fractions also acted in synergism with the cellobiohydrolases (CBH I and CBH II) of the aerobic fungus Penicillium pinophilum in degrading crystalline cellulose, but only when both cellobiohydrolase enzymes were present in the solution along with any one of the three endoglucanases. These observations support the conclusion that the mechanism of action of the cellulase system of N. frontalis in degrading crystalline cellulose may be similar to that operating in the aerobic fungi. 
21491985	20110416	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of transcripts overexpressed in the human pathogen Trichophyton rubrum grown in lipid as carbon source.	Trichophyton rubrum is the most common etiological agent of human dermatophytosis. Despite the incidence and medical importance of this dermatophyte, little is known about the mechanisms of host invasion and pathogenicity. Host invasion depends on the adaptive cellular responses of the pathogen that allow it to penetrate the skin layers, which are mainly composed of proteins and lipids. In this study, we used suppression subtractive hybridization to identify transcripts overexpressed in T. rubrum cultured in lipid as carbon source. Among the subtractive cDNA clones isolated, 85 clones were positively screened by cDNA array dot blotting and were sequenced. The putative proteins encoded by the isolated transcripts showed similarities to fungal proteins involved in metabolism, signaling, defense, and virulence, such as the MDR/ABC transporter, glucan 1,3-β-glucosidase, chitin synthase B, copper-sulfate-regulated protein, and serine/threonine phosphatase (calcineurin A). These results provide the first molecular insight into the genes differentially expressed during the adaptation of T. rubrum to a lipidic carbon source. 
9118231	19970101	Crit._Rev._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Lectins and biocontrol.	The harmful effects of chemical pesticides on the environment and human health have inspired a search for safer, environmentally-friendly control alternatives. The great advances in biotechnology, supported by basic studies utilizing molecular biology tools, have made biological control (i.e., the use of antagonistic microorganisms, fungi, or bacteria to reduce disease-producing activity and, consequently, crop loss) a potential nonhazardous alternative. An elucidation of the mechanisms underlying the biological control of plant pathogens could lead to the development of biocontrol agents with improved performance. In this respect, understanding the molecular basis for the recognition and specificity of the interaction between biocontrol agents and their hosts is fundamental. These crucial, early events, which influence and regulate the entire antagonistic process are mediated by sugar-binding proteins or glycoproteins, lectins, which are present on the cell surface. In some cases, lectins have been found to dictate the specificity of the interaction, discriminating host from non-host. In the present review, the significant role of lectins in the interaction between mycoparasitic biocontrol agents and their hosts is demonstrated in three different, albeit related, systems: parasite-nematode interactions and biotrophic and necrotrophic mycoparasites of plant pathogenic fungi. 
23540925	20130402	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Fusion of cellulose binding domain from Trichoderma reesei CBHI to Cryptococcus sp. S-2 cellulase enhances its binding affinity and its cellulolytic activity to insoluble cellulosic substrates.	Cryptococcus sp. S-2 carboxymethyl cellulase (CSCMCase) is active in the acidic pH and lacks a binding domain. The absence of the binding domain makes the enzyme inefficient against insoluble cellulosic substrates. To enhance its binding affinity and its cellulolytic activity to insoluble cellulosic substrates, cellulose binding domain (CBD) of cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI) from Trichoderma reesei belonging to carbohydrate binding module (CBM) family 1 was fused at the C-terminus of CSCMCase. The constructed fusion enzymes (CSCMCase-CBD and CSCMCase-2CBD) were expressed in a newly recombinant expression system of Cryptococcus sp. S-2, purified to homogeneity, and then subject to detailed characterization. The recombinant fusion enzymes displayed optimal pH similar to those of the native enzyme. Compared with rCSCMCase, the recombinant fusion enzymes had acquired an increased binding affinity to insoluble cellulose and the cellulolytic activity toward insoluble cellulosic substrates (SIGMACELL(®) and Avicel) was higher than that of native enzyme, confirming the presence of CBDs improve the binding and the cellulolytic activity of CSCMCase on insoluble substrates. This attribute should make CSCMCase an attractive applicant for various application. 
21861372	20110825	Mikrobiologiia	D016428 	Kinetic study of partially purified cellulase enzyme produced by Trichoderma viride FCBP-142 and its hyperactive mutants.	Cellulases are the enzymes that cleave beta-1,4 linkages of cellulose, and carbohydrate that is main part of plants' cell walls. Presently, cellulase isolation and partial purification was executed through ammonium sulfate precipitation. The isolated protein of parental and derived mutants conferred molecular weights of 30, 45 and 55 kDa. The optimum temperature for maximal cellulase activity was 50 degrees C with Ea for substrate hydrolysis of 77.73, 83.97 and 83.14 kJ mol(-1) and temperature quotient of 1.0020, 1.0022 and 1.0022 by Trichoderma viride FCBP-142, Tv-UV-5.6 and Tv-Ch-4.3, respectively. The enzyme was stable at 50 degrees C for about 60 min but rapid denaturation occurred above 55 degrees C. The enzyme showed optimum activity at pH 4.0 and involved two types of acidic and basic limbs with pKa1 and pKa2. The pKa1 of active site presented a significant shift from 2.55 to 2.9 and 3.1 by Tv-UV-5.6 and Tv-Ch-4.3, respectively in comparison to parental strain. Likewise, pKa2 moved from 6.05 to 6.5 and 6.4. Enzyme kinetics displayed Michaelis-Menten constant Km 0.6, 0.5 and 0.28 mg mL(-1) and Vmax value of 8.33, 10 and 9.09 Units mL(-1) for parental, Tv-UV-5.6 and Tv-Ch-4.3, respectively. 
12788724	20030606	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	External pH and nitrogen source affect secretion of pectate lyase by Colletotrichum gloeosporioides.	Accumulation of ammonia and associated tissue alkalinization predispose fruit to attack by Colletotrichum gloeosporioides: As the external pH increases from 4.0 to 6.0, pectate lyase (PL) and other extracellular proteins are secreted and accumulate. At pH 4.0 neither pelB (encoding PL) transcription nor PL secretion were detected; however, they were detected as the pH increased. Nitrogen assimilation also was required for PL secretion at pH 6.0. Both inorganic and organic nitrogen sources enhanced PL secretion at pH 6.0, but neither was sufficient for PL secretion at pH 4.0. Sequence analysis of the 5' upstream region of the pelB promoter revealed nine putative consensus binding sites for the Aspergillus transcription factor PacC. Consistent with this result, the transcript levels of pac1 (the C. gloeosporioides pacC homologue) and pelB increased in parallel as a function of pH. Our results suggest that the ambient pH and the nitrogen source are independent regulatory factors for processes linked to PL secretion and virulence of C. gloeosporioides. 
23961037	20130821	Saudi_J_Biol_Sci	D016428 	Differential induction of chitinase in Piper colubrinum in response to inoculation with Phytophthora capsici, the cause of foot rot in black pepper.	Plant chitinases have been of particular interest since they are known to be induced upon pathogen invasion. Inoculation of Piper colubrinum leaves with the foot rot fungus, Phytophthora capsici leads to increase in chitinase activity. A marked increase in chitinase activity in the inoculated leaves was observed, with the maximum activity after 60 h of inoculation and gradually decreased thereafter. Older leaves showed more chitinase activity than young leaves. The level of chitinase in black pepper (Piper nigrum L.) upon inoculation was found to be substantially high when compared to P. colubrinum. RT-PCR using chitinase specific primers revealed differential accumulation of mRNA in P. colubrinum leaves inoculated with P. capsici. However, hyphal extension assays revealed no obvious differences in the ability of the protein extracts to inhibit growth of P. capsici in vitro.  
15672217	20050127	Biotechnol._Lett.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Function of a low molecular peptide generated by cellulolytic fungi for the degradation of native cellulose.	Peptides (MW < 5 kDa) produced by 57 cellulolytic fungi can form free radicals. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and IR spectroscopy showed that the peptide produced by Trichoderma pseudokoningii can break the hydrogen bond network of cellulose. The synergic action of these peptides and cellulases increased production of reducing sugars during degradation of native cellulose. 
22371150	20120229	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of hemicellulases from thermophilic fungi.	The thermophilic fungi Thermomyces lanuginosus, Malbranchea cinnamomea, Myceliophthora fergusii and the thermotolerant Aspergillus terreus were cultivated on various carbon sources, and hemicellulolytic and cellulolytic enzyme profiles were evaluated. All fungi could grow on locust bean galactomannan (LBG), Solka floc, wheat bran and pectin, except T. lanuginosus, which failed to utilize LBG for growth. Different levels of cellulase and hemicellulase activities were produced by these fungal strains. Depending on the carbon source, variable ratios of thermostable hydrolytic enzymes were obtained, which may be useful in various applications. All strains were found to secrete xylanolytic and mannanolytic enzymes. Generally, LBG was the most efficient carbon source to induce mannanase activities, although T. lanuginosus was able to produce mannanase only on wheat bran as a carbon source. Xylanolytic activities were usually highest on wheat bran medium, but in contrast to other investigated fungi, xylanase production by M. fergusii was enhanced on pectin medium. Preliminary thermostability screening indicated that among the investigated species, thermotolerant glycosidases can be found. Some of the accessory activities, including the α-arabinosidase activity, were surprisingly high. The capability of the produced enzymes to improve the hydrolysis of lignocellulosic pretreated substrate was evaluated and revealed potential for these enzymes. 
16825450	20060711	J._Environ._Qual.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Soil microbial communities and enzyme activities under various poultry litter application rates.	The potential excessive nutrient and/or microbial loading from mismanaged land application of organic fertilizers is forcing changes in animal waste management. Currently, it is not clear to what extent different rates of poultry litter impact soil microbial communities, which control nutrient availability, organic matter quality and quantity, and soil degradation potential. From 2002 to 2004, we investigated the microbial community and several enzyme activities in a Vertisol soil (fine, smectitic, thermic, Udic Haplustert) at 0 to 15 cm as affected by different rates of poultry litter application to pasture (0, 6.7, and 13.4 Mg ha(-1)) and cultivated sites (0, 4.5, 6.7, 9.0, 11.2, and 13.4 Mg ha(-1)) in Texas, USA. No differences in soil pH (average: 7.9), total N (pasture: 2.01-3.53, cultivated: 1.09-1.98 g kg(-1) soil) or organic C (pasture average: 25-26.7, cultivated average: 13.9-16.1 g kg(-1) soil) were observed following the first four years of litter application. Microbial biomass carbon (MBC) and nitrogen (MBN) increased at litter rates greater than 6.7 Mg ha(-1) (pasture: MBC = >863, MBN = >88 mg kg(-1) soil) compared to sites with no applied litter (MBC = 722, MBN = 69 mg kg(-1) soil). Enzyme activities of C (beta-glucosidase, alpha-galactosidase, beta-glucosaminidase) or N cycling (beta-glucosaminidase) were increased at litter rates greater than 6.7 Mg ha(-1). Enzyme activities of P (alkaline phosphatase) and S (arylsulfatase) mineralization showed the same response in pasture, but they were only increased at the highest (9.0, 11.2, and 13.4 Mg ha(-1)) litter application rates in cultivated sites. According to fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) analysis, the pasture soils experienced shifts to higher bacterial populations at litter rates of 6.7 Mg ha(-1), and shifts to higher fungal populations at the highest litter application rates in cultivated sites. While rates greater than 6.7 Mg ha(-1) provided rapid enhancement of the soil microbial populations and enzymatic activities, they result in P application in excess of crop needs. Thus, studies will continue to investigate whether litter application at rates below 6.7 Mg ha(-1), previously recommended to maintain water quality, will result in similar improved soil microbial and biochemical functioning with continued annual litter application. 
18086237	20071219	Plant_Biotechnol._J.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of a fungal ferulic acid esterase increases cell wall digestibility of tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea).	In the cell walls of forage grasses, ferulic acid is esterified to arabinoxylans and participates with lignin monomers in oxidative coupling pathways to generate ferulate-polysaccharide-lignin complexes that cross-link the cell wall. Such cross-links hinder cell wall degradation by ruminant microbes, reducing plant digestibility. In this study, genetically modified Festuca arundinacea plants were produced expressing an Aspergillus niger ferulic acid esterase (FAEA) targeted to the vacuole. The rice actin promoter proved to be effective for FAEA expression, as did the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S and maize ubiquitin promoters. Higher levels of expression were, however, found with inducible heat-shock and senescence promoters. Following cell death and subsequent incubation, vacuole-targeted FAEA resulted in the release of both monomeric and dimeric ferulic acids from the cell walls, and this was enhanced several fold by the addition of exogenous endo-1,4-beta-xylanase. Most of the FAEA-expressing plants showed increased digestibility and reduced levels of cell wall esterified phenolics relative to non-transformed plants. It is concluded that targeted FAEA expression is an effective strategy for improving wall digestibility in Festuca and, potentially, other grass species used for fodder or cellulosic ethanol production. 
2960680	19871215	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013487 	Secretory protein translocation in a neurospora crassa in vitro system. Hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate is required for posttranslational translocation.	An in vitro translocation system has been reconstituted with subcellular fractions from the cell wall-less mutant of Neurospora crassa (fz;sg;os-1). Prepro alpha factor and invertase, secretory proteins from yeast, were faithfully translocated and glycosylated by Neurospora microsomes when presence cotranslationally in the Neurospora translation system. When presence cotranslationally in the Neurospora translation system, microsomes from canine pancreas(cRM) could also translocate and glycosylate the secretory proteins. However, salt-extracted cRM, which is depleted of canine signal recognition particle, could not. Furthermore, prepro alpha factor and a truncated form of invertase, containing the first 262-amino acid residues of the secretory invertase, were glycosylated by Neurospora microsomes posttranslationally, whereas only the truncated form of invertase was glycosylated by cRM when added posttranslationally. The full length invertase was not glycosylated posttranslationally. Posttranslational glycosylation of prepro alpha factor and of the truncated form of invertase is dependent on the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate. These data suggest that posttranslational glycosylation of prepro alpha factor occurs via a novel type of recognition mechanism which is either absent or ineffective in cRM. 
21424547	20110323	Mol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of pathogenicity-related genes in the vascular wilt fungus Verticillium dahliae by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated T-DNA insertional mutagenesis.	Verticillium dahliae is the causal agent of vascular wilt in many economically important crops worldwide. Identification of genes that control pathogenicity or virulence may suggest targets for alternative control methods for this fungus. In this study, Agrobacterium                         tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT) was applied for insertional mutagenesis of V. dahliae conidia. Southern blot analysis indicated that T-DNAs were inserted randomly into the V. dahliae genome and that 69% of the transformants were the result of single copy T-DNA insertion. DNA sequences flanking T-DNA insertion were isolated through inverse PCR (iPCR), and these sequences were aligned to the genome sequence to identify the genomic position of insertion. V. dahliae mutants of particular interest selected based on culture phenotypes included those that had lost the ability to form microsclerotia and subsequently used for virulence assay. Based on the virulence assay of 181 transformants, we identified several mutant strains of V. dahliae that did not cause symptoms on lettuce plants. Among these mutants, T-DNA was inserted in genes encoding an endoglucanase 1 (VdEg-1), a hydroxyl-methyl glutaryl-CoA synthase (VdHMGS), a major facilitator superfamily 1 (VdMFS1), and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) mannosyltransferase 3 (VdGPIM3). These results suggest that ATMT can effectively be used to identify genes associated with pathogenicity and other functions in V. dahliae. 
7793911	19950301	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae of a Trichoderma reesei beta-mannanase gene containing a cellulose binding domain.	beta-Mannanase (endo-1,4-beta-mannanase; mannan endo-1,4-beta-mannosidase; EC 3.2.1.78) catalyzes endo-wise hydrolysis of the backbone of mannan and heteromannans, including hemicellulose polysaccharides, which are among the major components of plant cell walls. The gene man1, which encodes beta-mannanase, of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei was isolated from an expression library by using antiserum raised towards the earlier-purified beta-mannanase protein. The deduced beta-mannanase consists of 410 amino acids. On the basis of hydrophobic cluster analysis, the beta-mannanase was assigned to family 5 of glycosyl hydrolases (cellulase family A). The C terminus of the beta-mannanase has strong amino acid sequence similarity to the cellulose binding domains of fungal cellulases and is preceded by a serine-, threonine-, and proline-rich region. Consequently, the beta-mannanase is probably organized similarly to the T. reesei cellulases, having a catalytic core domain separated from the substrate-binding domain by an O-glycosylated linker. Active beta-mannanase was expressed and secreted by using the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as the host. The results indicate that the man1 gene encodes the two beta-mannanases with different isoelectric points (pIs 4.6 and 5.4) purified earlier from T. reesei. 
22992733	20120921	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Arginine transcriptional response does not require inositol phosphate synthesis.	Inositol phosphates are key signaling molecules affecting a large variety of cellular processes. Inositol-polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK) is a central component of the inositol phosphate biosynthetic routes, playing essential roles during development. IPMK phosphorylates inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate to inositol tetrakisphosphate and subsequently to inositol pentakisphosphate and has also been described to function as a lipid kinase. Recently, a catalytically inactive mammalian IPMK was reported to be involved in nutrient signaling by way of mammalian target of rapamycin and AMP-activated protein kinase. In yeast, the IPMK homologue, Arg82, is the sole inositol-trisphosphate kinase. Arg82 has been extensively studied as part of the transcriptional complex regulating nitrogen sensing, in particular arginine metabolism. Whether this role requires Arg82 catalytic activity has long been a matter of contention. In this study, we developed a novel method for the real time study of promoter strength in vivo and used it to demonstrate that catalytically inactive Arg82 fully restored the arginine-dependent transcriptional response. We also showed that expression in yeast of catalytically active, but structurally very different, mammalian or plant IPMK homologue failed to restore arginine regulation. Our work indicates that inositol phosphates do not regulate arginine-dependent gene expression. 
24250679	20131120	Iran_J_Pharm_Res	D016428 	Halotolerant Ability and α-Amylase Activity of Some Saltwater Fungal Isolates.	Four halotolerant fungal isolates originating from the saltwater Lake Urmia in Iran were selected during a screening program for salt resistance and α-amylase activity. The isolates were identified based on sequencing the ITS region and a part of the β-tubulin gene, as Penicillium chrysogenum (isolate U1; CBS 132820), Fusarium incarnatum (isolate U2; CBS 132821), and Penicillium polonicum (isolate U3; CBS 132822, and isolate U4; CBS 132823). The growth of these isolates was determined by measuring the colony diameter and mycelia dry weight in Sabouraud dextrose agar and yeast nitrogen base medium supplemented with NaCl, KCl, and LiCl. Isolate U4 showed a growth up in 15% NaCl and U1 was the only isolate that could grow in 20% KCl. None of the strains grew in a media containing LiCl. The salt supplemented medium did not increase the size of colony diameter in all isolates (p > 0.05). The ability of the selected isolates for amylase production was quantitatively tested and showed that P. polonicum isolate U4 was the most potent producer of amylase with a yield of 260.9 U/L after 60 h, whereas P. polonicum isolate U3 was the lowest one with a production level of 97.9 U/L after 48 h. P. polonicum isolate U4 could be a suitable candidate for production of amylase on an industrial scale after optimization.  
1924382	19911015	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013487 	Alanine scanning site-directed mutagenesis of the zinc fingers of transcription factor ADR1: residues that contact DNA and that transactivate.	To identify functionally important amino acids in the two zinc fingers of transcription factor ADR1 [alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) II synthesis regulator], oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis was used to substitute alanine for the original amino acid at each position in both fingers. The effects of these mutations on DNA binding and thermal stability of ADR1 in vitro and on activation of ADH2 expression in vivo were measured. The DNA binding activity was remarkably heatstable. Amino acids that are candidates for DNA contact sites were identified in the finger-tip and alpha-helical region of each finger, three in the first finger and two in the second. Unexpectedly, an acidic residue in the first finger was essential for transactivation, but its replacement by alanine had no effect on DNA binding. Substitution at several highly conserved positions did not affect ADR1 functions. The ADR1 zinc fingers appear to make relatively few energetically significant contacts to DNA, perhaps as few as three in the first finger and one in the second. 
8096829	19930301	Genomics	D016428 D013485 	Construction of a 5.2-megabase physical map of the human X chromosome at Xq22 using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and yeast artificial chromosomes.	Several genes involved in human genetic diseases map to the Xq22 band on the long arm of the human X chromosome. We have constructed a long-range restriction map of the most proximal part of Xq22. Initially, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, in combination with rare-cutting restriction enzymes, was used to try and establish physical linkage of 11 polymorphic and nonpolymorphic DNA markers. This approach resulted in the construction of three long-range restriction maps around groups of physically linked Xq22 markers that spanned over 5.0 Mb of DNA. Yeast artificial chromosome clones were used to organize the three long-range maps onto a contiguous 5.2-Mb stretch of Xq22. The order of markers in this region was shown to be cen-GLA-DXS178-DXS101-DXS83-DXS24-DXS101-+ ++DXS54-PLP-DXS94-DXS147-DXS17-DXS87-tel . The results of this study suggest that the proximal part of Xq22 may be rich in genes. Construction of a physical map for this region will, therefore, facilitate the localization and subsequent isolation of novel genes. 
2037232	19910115	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of maltose non utilizing (mnu) mutants mapping outside the MAL1 locus in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The MAL1 locus of Saccharomyces cerevisiae comprises three genes necessary for maltose utilization. They include regulatory, maltose transport and maltase genes designated MAL1R, MAL1T and MAL1S respectively. Using a MAL1 strain transformed with an episomal, multicopy plasmid carrying the MAL2 locus, five recessive and one dominant mutant unable to grow on maltose, but still retaining a functional MAL1 locus were isolated. All the mutants could use glycerol, ethanol, raffinose and sucrose as a sole carbon source; expression of the maltase and maltose permease genes was severely and coordinately reduced. Only the dominant mutant failed to accumulate the MAL1R mRNA. 
16347204	19861101	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Production and Characteristics of Raw-Starch-Digesting alpha-Amylase from a Protease-Negative Aspergillus ficum Mutant.	Mutational experiments were carried out to decrease the protease productivity of Aspergillus ficum IFO 4320 by using N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine. A protease-negative mutant, M-33, exhibited higher alpha-amylaseactivity than the parent strain under submerged culture at 30 degrees C for 24 h. About 70% of the total alpha-amylase activity in the M-33 culture filtrate was adsorbed onto starch granules. The electrophoretically homogeneous preparation of raw-starch-adsorbable alpha-amylase (molecular weight, 88,000), acid stable at pH 2, showed intensive raw-starch-digesting activity, dissolving corn starch granules completely. The preparation also exhibited a high synergistic effect with glucoamylase I. A mutant, M-72, with higher protease activity produced a raw cornstarch-unadsorbable alpha-amylase. The purified enzyme (molecular weight, 54,000), acid unstable, showed no digesting activity on raw corn starch and a lower synergistic effect with glucoamylase I in the hydrolysis of raw corn starch. The fungal alpha-amylase was therefore divided into two types, a novel type of raw-starch-digesting enzyme and a conventional type of raw-starch-nondigesting enzyme. 
17397106	20070403	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	The Gas family of proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae: characterization and evolutionary analysis.	The GAS multigene family of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is constituted by five genes (GAS1-GAS5), but GAS1 was the only one to have been characterized to date. Gas1 is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein predominantly localized in the plasma membrane and is also a representative of family GH72 of glycosidase/transglycosidases, a wide group of yeast and fungal enzymes involved in cell wall assembly. Gas1-Gas5 proteins share a common N-terminal domain but exhibit different C-terminal extensions, in which a domain named Cys-Box is located. This domain is similar to the carbohydrate binding module 43 and is present only in Gas1p and Gas2p. Here we report the expression in P. pastoris of soluble forms of Gas proteins. Gas1, 2, 4 and 5 proteins were secreted with a yield of about 30-40 mg/l of medium, whereas the yield for Gas3p was about three times lower. Gas proteins proved to be N-glycosylated. Purified Gas proteins were tested for enzymatic activity. Gas2, Gas4 and Gas5p showed a beta-(1,3)-glucanosyltransferase activity similar to Gas1p. A phylogenetic tree of the N-terminal regions of family GH72 members was constructed. Two subfamilies of N-terminal regions were distinguished: one subfamily, GH72(+), contains proteins that possess a Cys-box in the C-terminal region, whereas family GH72(-) comprises proteins that lack a Cys-box. On the basis of this net distinction, we speculate that the type of C-tail region imposed constraints to the evolution of the N-terminal portion. 
11942082	20020411	Rev._Argent._Microbiol.	D003160 D004740 D023362 D016428 D013485 	[Effect of cocultivating fungal species on the degradation of lignocellulose residues].	The degradation potential of Phanerochaete sordida, Trametes trogii, Coprinus truncorum and Paecilomyces sp. upon yard wastes was evaluated. The species had been inoculated individually or in pairs formed by P. sordida and Paecilomyces sp., T. trogii and Paecilomyces sp., and C. truncorum and Paecilomyces sp. The highest level of endoxilanase activity was produced by P. sordida growing alone, during day 21 (1.09 U/g of dry material), but in P. sordida and Paecilomyces sp. cultures, the detected activity did not overcome 0.27 U/g of dry material during the whole experiment. T. trogii showed maximum activity on day 14 (0.78 U/g of dry material), but in T. trogii and Paecilomyces sp. cultures, the values increased until day 21 (1.07 U/g of dry material). P. sordida endocellulase activity reached its maximum on day 28 (0.08 U/g of dry material), but in P. sordida and Paecilomyces sp. cultures, this activity increased during the whole experiment (0.04 U/g of dry material). The major weight loss was found in P. sordida (27.6%). The possible beneficial effect of co-culture in yard wastes biodegradation is discussed. 
17468286	20070501	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Incorporation of fungal cellulases in bacterial minicellulosomes yields viable, synergistically acting cellulolytic complexes.	Artificial designer minicellulosomes comprise a chimeric scaffoldin that displays an optional cellulose-binding module (CBM) and bacterial cohesins from divergent species which bind strongly to enzymes engineered to bear complementary dockerins. Incorporation of cellulosomal cellulases from Clostridium cellulolyticum into minicellulosomes leads to artificial complexes with enhanced activity on crystalline cellulose, due to enzyme proximity and substrate targeting induced by the scaffoldin-borne CBM. In the present study, a bacterial dockerin was appended to the family 6 fungal cellulase Cel6A, produced by Neocallimastix patriciarum, for subsequent incorporation into minicellulosomes in combination with various cellulosomal cellulases from C. cellulolyticum. The binding of the fungal Cel6A with a bacterial family 5 endoglucanase onto chimeric miniscaffoldins had no impact on their activity toward crystalline cellulose. Replacement of the bacterial family 5 enzyme with homologous endoglucanase Cel5D from N. patriciarum bearing a clostridial dockerin gave similar results. In contrast, enzyme pairs comprising the fungal Cel6A and bacterial family 9 endoglucanases were substantially stimulated (up to 2.6-fold) by complexation on chimeric scaffoldins, compared to the free-enzyme system. Incorporation of enzyme pairs including Cel6A and a processive bacterial cellulase generally induced lower stimulation levels. Enhanced activity on crystalline cellulose appeared to result from either proximity or CBM effects alone but never from both simultaneously, unlike minicellulosomes composed exclusively of bacterial cellulases. The present study is the first demonstration that viable designer minicellulosomes can be produced that include (i) free (noncellulosomal) enzymes, (ii) fungal enzymes combined with bacterial enzymes, and (iii) a type (family 6) of cellulase never known to occur in natural cellulosomes. 
14763904	20040207	Biotechnol._Appl._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Production and characterization of hemicellulase activities from Trichoderma harzianum strain T4.	Xylan and mannan are the major constituent groups of hemicellulose in the cell wall of higher plants. The mesophilic fungus Trichoderma harzianum strain T4 produces extracellular xylanase and mannanase activities when grown in the presence of oat (Avena sativa)-spelt xylan and wheat bran as the carbon sources respectively. After the growth procedure, the crude extracts were submitted to ultrafiltration in an Amicon system fitted with a 10 kDa-cut-off membrane. Mannanase activity was only detected in the concentrated sample, whereas xylanase was also found in the permeate after ultrafiltration. Xylanase from the concentrated sample showed highest activity at 40 degrees C and pH 5.0. Mannanase activity was optimal at 65 degrees C and pH 2.6. Xylanase was stable in the temperature range 40-70 degrees C, presenting full stability for at least 48 h. Xylanase retained 100% of its original activity after incubation for 48 h at 70 degrees C. Xylanase was also stable at pH 5.0 and 6.0 for 48 h. However, mannanase activity was markedly less stable. The enzyme lost 50% of its activity at 55 degrees C after 45 min, whereas at 60 degrees C its half-life was 20 min. The Michaelis-Menten constant K(m) and V(max) for mannanase and xylanase activities were also calculated. Xylanase had more affinity for soluble xylan, with K(m) and V(max) values of 1.61 mg/ml and 10.03 units/ml respectively. The K(m) and V(max) values for crude mannanase were 6.0 mg/ml and 20.1 units/ml respectively. Xylanase and mannanase were activated by dithiothreitol, L-cysteine and L-tryptophan. Xylanase was partially purified by gel-filtration (Sephadex G-50) and hydrophobic-interaction (Phenyl-Sepharose) chromatographies. The partially purified enzyme was stable over the pH range 5-7 and temperature range of 40-60 degrees C. It was more active on soluble oat-spelt xylan and was activated by dithiothreitol, L-cysteine and L-tryptophan. 
17263465	20070201	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Gene cloning and characterization of a novel recombinant antifungal chitinase from papaya (Carica papaya).	A chitinase cDNA clone (CpCHI, 1002 bp) was isolated from papaya fruit, which encoded a 275 amino acid protein containing a 28 amino acid signal peptide in the N-terminal end. The predicted molecular mass of the mature protein was 26.2 kDa, and its pI value was 6.32. On the basis of its amino acid sequence homology with other plant chitinases, it was classified as a class IV chitinase. An active recombinant CpCHI enzyme was overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The purified recombinant papaya chitinase showed an optimal reaction temperature at 30 degrees C and a broad optimal pH ranging from 5.0 to 9.0. The recombinant enzyme was quite stable, retaining >64% activity for 3 weeks at 30 degrees C. The spore germination of Alternaria brassicicola could be completely inhibited by a 76 nM level of recombinant CpCHI. Recombinant CpCHI also showed antibacterial activity in which 50% of E. coli was inhibited by a 2.5 microM concentration of the enzyme. 
23990303	20130831	J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Cell-surface expression of Aspergillus saitoi-derived functional α-1,2-mannosidase on Yarrowia lipolytica for glycan remodeling.	Expression of proteins on the surface of yeast has a wide range of applications, such as development of live vaccines, screening of antibody libraries, and use as whole-cell biocatalysts. The hemiascomycetes yeast Yarrowia lipolytica has been raised as a potential host for heterologous expression of recombinant proteins. In this study, we report the expression of Aspergillus saitoi α-1,2-mannosidase, encoded by the msdS gene, on the cell surface of Y. lipolytica. As the first step to achieve the secretory expression of msdS protein, four different signal sequences-derived from the endogenous Y. lipolytica Lip2 and Xpr2 prepro regions and the heterologous A. niger α-amylase and rice α-amylase signal sequences-were analyzed for their secretion efficiency. It was shown that the YlLip2 prepro sequence was most efficient in directing the secretory expression of msdS in fully N-glycosylated forms. The surface display of msdS was subsequently directed by fusing GPI anchoring motifs derived from Y. lipolytica cell wall proteins, YlCwp1p and YlYwp1p, respectively, to the C-terminus of the Lip2 prepro-msdS protein. The expression of actively functional msdS protein on the cell surface was confirmed by western blot, flow cytometry analysis, along with the α-1,2-mannosidase activity assay using intact Y. lipolytica cells as the enzyme source. Furthermore, the glycoengineered Y. lipolytica Δoch1Δmpo1 strains displaying α-1,2-mannosidase were able to convert Man8GlcNAc2 to Man5GlcNAc2 efficiently on their cell-wall mannoproteins, demonstrating its potential used for glycoengineering in vitro or in vivo. 
6169675	19810101	Int_J_Vitam_Nutr_Res	D016428 	Inhibition of human digestive enzymes by hydrogenated malto-oligosaccharides.	Maltose, malto-oligosaccharides and their reduced sugar analogues have been tested as substrates and inhibitors of human salivary alpha-amylase and small intestine alpha-glucosidases. - Maltotriose and maltotetraose as well as their reduced analogues inhibited competitively alpha-amylase. Maltitol, maltotriitol and maltotetraitol were not hydrolyzed. - The small intestine maltases hydrolyzed maltitol at a very low rate, but maltotriitol was split almost at the same rate as maltotriose. These three sugars were weak mutual inhibitors. - The small intestine glucoamylase was slightly inhibited by maltotriitol but not by maltitol whereas fungal glucoamylase activity was strongly competitively inhibited by maltitol. This study shows that where the reducing end glucose unit of the malto-oligosaccharides below five glucose units are converted into sorbitol, their inhibitory effect is retained but their capacity of hydrolysis is reduced or disappears. 
2085388	19901001	J._Protein_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Role of a disulfide cross-link in the conformational stability of a thermostable xylanase.	The role of a S-S cross-link in the conformational stability of xylanase from Humicola lanuginosa has been investigated using CD, UV absorption spectroscopy, and RIA displacement studies. Our studies show that reduction and carboxymethylation of the S-S cross-link in xylanase results in a gross conformational perturbation of the protein. The secondary structure analysis of the CD spectra indicates that the xylanase with an intact S-S contains 66% beta-sheet structure and remaining random coil. Cleavage of the S-S bond results in a loss of 25% beta-sheet structure. Thermal denaturation studies using CD spectroscopy and pH-dependent tyrosine ionization studies using UV spectroscopy show that the presence of disulfide cross-link offers resistance against unfolding by extremes of temperature and pH. Further, we demonstrate that the heat-induced changes in xylanase with intact S-S bond are almost totally reversible, while those in the S-S cleaved enzyme fail to show any significant reversal. Our studies support the present theory that S-S cross-links exert their stabilizing effect in proteins by destabilizing the unfolded state of the protein and forcing it back to a more folded state. 
23291768	20130108	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Controlled preparation of cellulases with xylanolytic enzymes from Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina) by continuous-feed cultivation using soluble sugars.	The objective of this study was to develop an efficient production system for cellulase preparation with a high level of xylanolytic enzymes using soluble carbon sources. When xylose and arabinose were simultaneously fed with glucose and cellobiose, a mutant of Trichoderma reesei, M3-1, showed sufficient levels of cellulolytic and xylanolytic activities, indicating that xylose and arabinose are good inducers for the production of xylanolytic enzymes. In a continuous feeding experiment using glucose/cellobiose and glucose/xylose/cellobiose, cellulase preparations with various levels of xylanolytic enzymes were obtained by altering the feeding solutions and the timing of their addition. The volumetric production rates for xylanolytic activities at the glucose/xylose/cellobiose-feeding phase were significantly higher than at the glucose/cellobiose-feeding phase, while those for cellulolytic activities were comparable under the two conditions. Thus the composition of the enzyme preparation produced by the mutant was readily controlled by varying the inducers and the pattern of their addition, facilitating the tailored production of enzymes in a diversity of bioconversion processes. 
5104982	19710601	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Isolation and identification of trehalase from Pullularia pullulans.	Trehalase has been isolated from Pullularia pullulans. The enzyme, which is specific for trehalose, was purified approximately 800-fold. The optimal pH was found to be 4.0 and the Michaelis dissociation constant, K(m), was determined to be 3.2 x 10(-3)m. 
19692234	20090821	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Hydrothermal processing and enzymatic hydrolysis of sorghum bagasse for fermentable carbohydrates production.	Untreated and hydrothermally treated sorghum bagasse (SB) was hydrolyzed to simple sugars by the synergistic action of cellulases and hemicellulases produced by the fungi Fusarium oxysporum and Neurospora crassa. Synergism between the two lignocellulolytic systems was maximized with the application of higher fraction of N. crassa enzymes. Hydrothermolysis of SB was studied at a wide range of treatment times and temperatures. At intense pretreatment conditions (210 degrees C for 20 min; logR(0)=4.54), the residual hemicellulose percentage was 17.45%, while formation of inhibitory products, 5-hydromethyl-furfural (HMF), furfural, acetic and formic acid, (0.21, 0.51, 3.36 and 1.80 g/l, respectively) remained in acceptable levels. Maximum conversion of cellulose and total polysaccharides of the untreated SB were 23.18% and 18.79%, respectively. Combining hydrothermal treatment and enzymatic hydrolysis of released oligosaccharides and insoluble solids resulted in improvement of cellulose (approximately 15% increase) and total polysaccharides (two fold) hydrolysis compared to that of untreated SB. 
7764332	19931201	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	A comparison of two xylanases from the thermophilic fungi Thielavia terrestris and Thermoascus crustaceus.	Two thermophilic xylanases (xylanase II from Thielavia terrestris 255B and the 32-kDa xylanase from Thermoascus crustaceus 235E) were studied to determine if they had different and complementary modes of action when they hydrolysed various types of xylans. Partial amino acid sequencing showed that these two enzymes belonged to different families of beta-1,4-glycanases. Xylanase II achieved faster solubilization of insoluble xylan whereas the 32-kDa xylanase was more effective in producing xylose and short xylo-oligomers. An assessment of the combined hydrolytic action of the two xylanases did not reveal any co-operative action. The sugars released when the two thermophilic xylanases were used together were almost identical to those released when the 32-kDa xylanase acted alone. The two xylanases were able to remove about 12% of the xylan remaining in an aspen kraft pulp. This indicated that either one of these thermophilic enzymes may be useful for enhancing the bleaching of kraft pulps. 
23725035	20130604	BMC_Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression and efficient secretion of a functional chitinase from Chromobacterium violaceum in Escherichia coli.	Chromobacterium violaceum is a free-living β-proteobacterium found in tropical and subtropical regions. The genomic sequencing of C. violaceum ATCC 12472 has revealed many genes that underpin its adaptability to diverse ecosystems. Moreover, C. violaceum genes with potential applications in industry, medicine and agriculture have also been identified, such as those encoding chitinases. However, none of the chitinase genes of the ATCC 12472 strain have been subjected to experimental validation. Chitinases (EC 3.2.1.14) hydrolyze the β-(1,4) linkages in chitin, an abundant biopolymer found in arthropods, mollusks and fungi. These enzymes are of great biotechnological interest as potential biocontrol agents against pests and pathogens. This work aimed to experimentally validate one of the chitinases from C. violaceum. The open reading frame (ORF) CV2935 of C. violaceum ATCC 12472 encodes a protein (439 residues) that is composed of a signal peptide, a chitin-binding domain, a linker region, and a C-terminal catalytic domain belonging to family 18 of the glycoside hydrolases. The ORF was amplified by PCR and cloned into the expression vector pET303/CT-His. High levels of chitinolytic activity were detected in the cell-free culture supernatant of E. coli BL21(DE3) cells harboring the recombinant plasmid and induced with IPTG. The secreted recombinant protein was purified by affinity chromatography on a chitin matrix and showed an apparent molecular mass of 43.8 kDa, as estimated by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. N-terminal sequencing confirmed the proper removal of the native signal peptide during the secretion of the recombinant product. The enzyme was able to hydrolyze colloidal chitin and the synthetic substrates p-nitrophenyl-β-D-N,N'-diacetylchitobiose and p-nitrophenyl-β-D-N,N',N"-triacetylchitotriose. The optimum pH for its activity was 5.0, and the enzyme retained ~32% of its activity when heated to 60°C for 30 min. A C. violaceum chitinase was expressed in E. coli and purified by affinity chromatography on a chitin matrix. The secretion of the recombinant protein into the culture medium was directed by its native signal peptide. The mature enzyme was able to hydrolyze colloidal chitin and synthetic substrates. This newly identified signal peptide is a promising secretion factor that should be further investigated in future studies, aiming to demonstrate its usefulness as an alternative tool for the extracellular production of recombinant proteins in E. coli. 
9468338	19980219	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	N-glycosylation does not affect assembly and targeting of proglycinin in yeast.	Glycinin, a simple protein, and beta-conglycinin, a glycoprotein, are the dominant storage proteins of soybean and are suggested to be derived from a common ancestor. To investigate why glycinin does not require glycosylation for its maturation, we attempted N-glycosylation of proglycinin A1aB1b using site-directed mutagenesis and yeast expression system. An N-glycosylation consensus sequence Asn-X-Ser/Thr was created at positions 103, 183, 196, 284 and 457 in the variable regions being strongly hydrophilic revealed from the alignment of amino acid sequences of various glycinin-type proteins. Among five mutant proglycinins (Q103N, H183N, G198T, S284N, N459T), Q103N was fully glycosylated, and H183N and N459T were partly (around 20% of the expressed proteins), whereas others were barely or not glycosylated. The glycosylated proglycinin was susceptible to endo-beta-N-acetylglucosamidase and N-glycanase cleavages. N-glycosylation did not cause inconveniences to processing of signal peptide, assembly into trimers and targeting into the vacuoles. Thermal and trypsin sensitivity analyses of the glycosylated proglycinin suggested that N-linked glycan prevents protein-protein interaction but does not stabilize the protein conformation. The reason why glycinin does not require N-glycosylation for its maturation is discussed. 
17356854	20070316	Mycorrhiza	D016428 	Exogenous systemin has a contrasting effect on disease resistance in mycorrhizal tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) plants infected with necrotrophic or hemibiotrophic pathogens.	A study was performed to determine the effect of the systemin polypeptide on the bio-protective effect of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in tomato plants infected with Alternaria solani, Phytophthora infestans or P. parasitica. Before infection, tomato plants were colonized with two different AMF, Glomus fasciculatum or G. clarum. In addition, a group of inoculated plants was treated with systemin, just after emergence. The exogenous application of systemin marginally suppressed the resistance against A. solani leaf blight observed in G. fasciculatum mycorrhizal plants but significantly enhanced it in plants colonized with G. clarum. Systemin induced resistance to P. parasitica in leaves of G. fasciculatum mycorrhizal plants, in which AMF colonization alone was shown to have no protective effect. Conversely, none of the treatments led to resistance to root or stem rots caused by P. infestans or P. parasitica. The above effects did not correlate with changes in the activity levels of beta-1,3-glucanase (BG), chitinase (CHI), peroxidase (PRX), and phenylalanine ammonium lyase (PAL) in leaves of infected plants. However, they corroborated previous reports showing that colonization by AMF can lead to a systemic resistance response against A. solani. Systemic resistance to A. solani was similarly observed in non-mycorrhizal systemin-treated plants, which, in contrast, showed increased susceptibility to P. infestans and P. parasitica. The results indicated that the pattern of systemic disease resistance conferred by mycorrhizal colonization was dependent on the AMF employed and could be altered by the exogenous application of systemin, by means of a still undefined mechanism. 
18658138	20080729	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Identification and characterization of bacterial cutinase.	Cutinase, which exists in both fungi and bacteria, catalyzes the cleavage of the ester bonds of cutin. Fungal cutinases have been extensively studied, however, reports on bacterial cutinases have been limited due to the lack of knowledge concerning the identity of their open reading frames. In the present study, the cutinase from Thermobifida fusca was induced by cutin and purified to homogeneity by following p-nitrophenyl butyrate hydrolyzing activity. Peptide mass fingerprinting analysis of the wild-type enzyme matched two proteins, Tfu_0883 and Tfu_0882, which are 93% identical in sequence. Both proteins were cloned and overexpressed in their mature form. Recombinant Tfu_0883 and Tfu_0882 display very similar enzymatic properties and were confirmed to be cutinases by their capability to hydrolyze the ester bonds of cutin. Comparative characterization of Fusarium solani pisi and T. fusca cutinases indicated that they have similar substrate specificity and catalytic properties except that the T. fusca enzymes are thermally more stable. Homology modeling revealed that T. fusca cutinases adopt an alpha/beta-hydrolase fold that exhibits both similarities and variations from the fungal cutinase structure. A serine hydrolase catalytic mechanism involving a Ser(170)-His(248)-Asp(216) (Tfu_0883 numbering) catalytic triad was supported by active site-directed inhibition studies and mutational analyses. This is the first report of cutinase encoding genes from bacterial sources. 
21143727	20101215	Plant_Biol_(Stuttg)	D016428 D013485 	Molecular characterisation of Ltchi7, a gene encoding a Class III endochitinase induced by drought stress in Lotus spp.	Chitinases are enzymes that digest chitin molecules, present principally in insects and fungi. In plants, these enzymes play an important role in defence against pathogen attack, although they have also been described as induced by mechanical damage, ozone, heavy metals, cold, salinity, etc. Using an annealing control primer, we isolated a gene fragment whose translated sequence has high homology with a class III endochitinase. The gene, named Ltchi7, consisted of one ORF of 1005 bp, which codes for a peptide of 334 amino acids, including a deduced signal peptide of 27 amino acid that directs protein to the extracellular space. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that Ltchi7 is within a cluster that includes Sesbania rostrata, Medicago sativa and Glycine max class III endochitinases. This group is differentiated from other species of endochitinases by the presence of an additional extension in carboxy-terminal region. Moreover, in comparison with the majority of chitinases, Ltchi7 has two additional cysteine residues, which, according to 3D modelling studies, are very close. Gene expression analysis showed enhanced transcript abundance of this gene during drought stress in Lotus tenuis and Lotus japonicus, compared with growth under normal conditions. Furthermore, its expression is restricted to nodules and roots. Expression of this gene was also induced by salt stress, hydrogen peroxide and weakly with abscisic acid. 
10561593	19991124	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Alpha-complemented beta-galactosidase. An in vivo model substrate for the molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 90 in yeast.	Intracistronic complementation of N-terminally truncated beta-galactosidase mutants such as M15 by coexpressed alpha-peptide was originally discovered in Escherichia coli and exploited for plasmid cloning as the well-known blue-white screening method. We show here that alpha-complementation also works in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and that it can be used as a simple nonselective enzymatic marker for a variety of in vivo studies, for example, on the role of molecular chaperones in protein folding and assembly. To be able to induce alpha-complementation post-translationally, we have constructed a hormone-inducible alpha-peptide by fusion of the DNA encoding the alpha-peptide to that of to the hormone binding domain of the estrogen receptor. The accumulation of both subunits, the alpha-peptide and M15, is severely compromised when they are expressed separately, presumably because their hydrophobic surfaces remain exposed. Moreover, alpha-complementation is defective in a strain of S. cerevisiae carrying a point mutant of the molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 90. Heat-shock protein 90, which coprecipitates with M15, might be required in vivo to prevent the degradation of unassembled M15 and to hold it in an interaction-competent conformation. 
23701911	20130525	Plasmid	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous protein expression in Trichoderma reesei using the cbhII promoter.	To express homologous or heterologous proteins in fungi, a protein expression system using the promoter of cellobiohydrolase II gene (cbhII) was constructed by generating an expression vector called pWEIIF00. The obtained vector possesses the left and right borders, a hygromycin phosphotransferase B selective marker and a strong promoter and terminator of cbhII from Trichoderma reesei. It can easily undergo random recombination. The applicability of the vector was tested by red fluorescent protein gene (DsRed2) expression detection in T. reesei Rut C30. Using this system, a recombinant Cel5A variant, N342R (Qin et al., 2008), was then selected to express in Rut-C30. Compared to that of the parent strain, integration of the N342R gene resulted in 31.09% increased carboxymethyl-cellulose-degrading (CMCase) activity at pH 5.0 and 56.06% increased activity at pH 6.0. The increased CMCase activity of the recombinant strains would be beneficial for its application uses in multiple industries. The vector constructed in this study can used in fungi to produce industrial proteins.  
18590937	20080702	Int._J._Food_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Improved control of anthracnose rot in loquat fruit by a combination treatment of Pichia membranifaciens with CaCl(2).	The beneficial effect of 2% CaCl(2) (w/v) on the antagonistic yeast Pichia membranifaciens for control of anthracnose rot caused by Colletotrichum acutatum in postharvest loquat fruit (Eriobotrya japonica L.) and the possible mechanisms involved were investigated. The results showed that treatment with P. membranifaciens at 1x10(8) CFU ml(-1) or 2% CaCl(2) alone both resulted in significantly smaller lesion diameter and lower disease incidence of anthracnose rot on loquat fruit wounds compared with the controls. The biocontrol activity of P. membranifaciens on the disease was enhanced by the addition of 2% CaCl(2), the combined treatment of P. membranifaciens with CaCl(2) resulted in a remarkably improved control of the disease in comparison with the treatment of P. membranifaciens or CaCl(2) alone. P. membranifaciens in combination with CaCl(2) induced higher activities of two defense-related enzymes chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase in loquat fruit than applying the yeast or CaCl(2) alone. The in vitro experiment showed that the addition of 2% CaCl(2) in the suspensions of P. membranifaciens significantly inhibited spore germination and germ tube elongation of C. acutatum than the yeast or CaCl(2) alone. However, adding CaCl(2) did not significantly influence the population of P. membranifaciens in NYDB medium or fruit wounds. These results suggest that CaCl(2) could improve the biocontrol activity of P. membranifaciens on anthracnose rot in loquat fruit. It is postulated that the improved control of the disease is directly because of the higher inhibitory effect on pathogen growth and indirectly because of the enhanced disease resistance in loquat fruit by the combination treatment. 
16406356	20060113	Comp._Biochem._Physiol._C_Toxicol._Pharmacol.	D016428 	Screening of entomopathogenic Metarhizium anisopliae isolates and proteomic analysis of secretion synthesized in response to cowpea weevil (Callosobruchus maculatus) exoskeleton.	Cowpea crops are severely attacked by Callosobruchus maculatus, a Coleopteran that at the larval stage penetrates into stored seeds and feeds on cotyledons. Cowpea weevil control could be based in utilization of bacteria and fungi to reduce pest development. Entomopathogenic fungi, such as Metarhizium anisopliae, are able to control insect-pests and are widely applied in biological control. This report evaluated ten M. anisopliae isolates according to their virulence, correlating chitinolytic, proteolytic and alpha-amylolytic activities, as well proteomic analysis by two dimensional gels of fungal secretions in response to an induced medium containing C. maculatus shells, indicating novel biotechnological tools capable of improving cowpea crop resistance. 
21678892	20110618	J._Proteome_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Proteomics-based compositional analysis of complex cellulase-hemicellulase mixtures.	Efficient deconstruction of cellulosic biomass to fermentable sugars for fuel and chemical production is accomplished by a complex mixture of cellulases, hemicellulases, and accessory enzymes (e.g., >50 extracellular proteins). Cellulolytic enzyme mixtures, produced industrially mostly using fungi like Trichoderma reesei, are poorly characterized in terms of their protein composition and its correlation to hydrolytic activity on cellulosic biomass. The secretomes of commercial glycosyl hydrolase-producing microbes was explored using a proteomics approach with high-throughput quantification using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Here, we show that proteomics-based spectral counting approach is a reasonably accurate and rapid analytical technique that can be used to determine protein composition of complex glycosyl hydrolase mixtures that also correlates with the specific activity of individual enzymes present within the mixture. For example, a strong linear correlation was seen between Avicelase activity and total cellobiohydrolase content. Reliable, quantitative and cheaper analytical methods that provide insight into the cellulosic biomass degrading fungal and bacterial secretomes would lead to further improvements toward commercialization of plant biomass-derived fuels and chemicals. 
21696466	20110624	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Simultaneous silencing of endo-β-1,4 xylanase genes reveals their roles in the virulence of Magnaporthe oryzae.	Due to functional redundancy, it is often difficult to genetically analyse the biological function of fungal cell wall-degrading enzymes that belong to a gene family. To overcome this difficulty, we used RNAi to knock-down (KD) multiple xylanase genes to elucidate their roles in the pathogenicity of the blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae. To obtain the maximum average efficiency of gene silencing for the xylanase genes, we used the 'building blocks method', in which a 40 bp sequence was chosen from an endoxylanase gene, and 10 such sequences from 10 endoxylanases were combined to make an artificial RNAi trigger by synthetic DNA. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that the transcript levels of all the expressed xylanase genes were significantly reduced in KD mutants with the artificial RNAi trigger. Even though the KD mutants did not completely lose their pathogenicity to host plants, the number of lesions, rate of penetration and extent of infected cells were all reduced in KD mutant-infected leaves. The degree of pathogenicity reduction was associated with the silencing levels of xylanase mRNA and enzymatic activity in the KD mutants. Cytological analysis indicated that xylanases play significant roles in both vertical penetration and horizontal expansion of M. oryzae in infected plants. 
22415789	20120315	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production, purification, and characterization of a β-glucosidase of Penicillium funiculosum NCL1.	Penicillium funiculosum NCL1, a filamentous fungus, produced significantly higher levels of β-glucosidase. The effect of initial pH, incubation temperature, and different carbon sources on extracellular β-glucosidase production was studied in submerged fermentation. At 30 °C with initial pH 5.0, enzyme production was increased by 48-fold upon induction with paper mill waste, as compared to commercial cellulose powder. In zymogram analysis, four isoforms of β-glucosidases were observed with wheat bran whereas a minimum of one isoform was observed with other carbon sources. A major β-glucosidase (Bgl3A) with the apparent molecular weight of ~120 kDa, induced by paper mill waste, was purified 19-fold to homogeneity, with a specific activity of 1,796 U/mg. Bgl3A was a monomeric glycoprotein with 29% of neutral carbohydrate content. It showed optimum activity at pH 4.0 and 5.0, optimum temperature at 60 °C, and exhibited a half-life of 1 h at 60 °C. K(m) of Bgl3A was found to be 0.057 mM with p-nitrophenyl β-D-glucoside and V(max) was 1,920 U/mg. The purified enzyme exhibited glucose tolerance with a K(i) of 1.5 mM. Bgl3A readily hydrolyzed glucosides with β-linkage. Bgl3A activity was enhanced (156%) by Zn²⁺ and was not affected by other metal cations and reagents. The supplementation of Bgl3A (5 U/mg) with Trichoderma reesei cellulase complex (5 FPU/mg) resulted in about 70% of enhanced glucose production, which emphasizes the industrial importance of Bgl3A. 
11131971	20001229	Mol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	PCR with degenerate primers amplifies a subgenomic DNA fragment from the endoglucanase gene(s) of Torula thermophila, a thermophilic fungus.	The aim of this study was to enable the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of DNA fragments within endoglucanase gene(s) of Torula thermophila, by using degenerate primers so that the amplified fragment(s) could be used as homologous probe(s) for cloning of full-length endoglucanase gene(s). The design of the degenerate PCR primers was mainly based on the endoglucanase sequences of other fungi. The endoglucanase gene sequence of Humicola insolens was the only sequence from a thermophilic fungus publicly available in the literature. Therefore, the endoglucanase sequences of the two Trichoderma species, Trichoderma reesei and Trichoderma longibrachiatum, were used to generalize the primers. PCR amplification of T. thermophila genomic DNA with these primers resulted in a specific amplification. The specificity of the amplified fragment was shown by Southern hybridization analysis using egl3 gene of T. reesei as probe. This result suggested that the degenerate primers used in this study may be of value for studies aimed at cloning of endoglucanase genes from a range of related fungi. 
7988872	19941001	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptional regulation of the Trichoderma longibrachiatum egl1 gene.	Transcription of the Trichoderma longibrachiatum egl1 gene is induced in the presence of lactose and beta-methylglucoside and repressed by glucose. A DNA fragment containing 722 bp upstream of the ATG codon has been sequenced. The gene has two major transcription start points (20 and 24 nucleotides upstream from the ATG codon) and several transcription termination points (located in a region around 130 nt downstream of the stop codon). Two 6-mer sequences (5'-CTGGAG-3') separated by 16 bp are present in the egl1 gene promoter. These sequences match the Aspergillus nidulans consensus CreA binding site and might be implicated in carbon catabolite repression of egl1 transcription. 
23809653	20130702	Fungal_Biol	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Oxidoreductases and cellulases in lichens: possible roles in lichen biology and soil organic matter turnover.	Lichens are symbiotic associations of a fungus (usually an Ascomycete) with green algae and/or a cyanobacterium. They dominate on 8 % of the world's land surface, mainly in Arctic and Antarctic regions, tundra, high mountain elevations and as components of dryland crusts. In many ecosystems, lichens are the pioneers on the bare rock or soil following disturbance, presumably because of their tolerance to desiccation and high temperature. Lichens have long been recognized as agents of mineral weathering and fine-earth stabilization. Being dominant biomass producers in extreme environments they contribute to primary accumulation of soil organic matter. However, biochemical role of lichens in soil processes is unknown. Our recent research has demonstrated that Peltigeralean lichens contain redox enzymes which in free-living fungi participate in lignocellulose degradation and humification. Thus lichen enzymes may catalyse formation and degradation of soil organic matter, particularly in high-stress communities dominated by lower plants. In the present review we synthesize recently published data on lichen phenol oxidases, peroxidases, and cellulases and discuss their possible roles in lichen physiology and soil organic matter transformations.  
20541633	20100615	N_Biotechnol	D016428 	Improvement of xylanase production by thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus SDYKY-1 using response surface methodology.	Response surface methodology (RSM) was employed to optimize medium composition for the production of a thermostable xylanase from T. lanuginosus SDYKY-1 using economical carbon and nitrogen sources (soybean meal and corncobs, respectively). Plackett-Burman (P-B) design was applied to evaluate the effects of nine variables (powdered corncobs, soybean meal, Tween-80, CaCl(2), MgSO(4)·7H(2)O, FeSO(4), KH(2)PO(4), initial pH and inoculum culture volume). Corncobs, soybean meal and FeSO(4) were found to significantly influence on the xylanase production. The concentrations of these three factors were therefore optimized using central composite design and RSM. Adjusting the concentration of corncobs to 38.7g/L, soybean meal to 17.5g/L and FeSO(4) to 0.26g/L favored maximum xylanase production. Xylanase activity of 3078U/mL was obtained after optimization, which was a 144% increase that obtained before optimization (1264U/mL). 
22532259	20120426	Protein_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Purification, characterization of a CkChn134 protein from Cynanchum komarovii seeds and synergistic effect with CkTLP against Verticillium dahliae.	Cynanchum komarovii Al Iljinski is a desert plant that has been used as analgesic, anthelminthic, and antidiarrheal, but also as herbal medicine to treat cholecystitis in people. In this work, an antifungal protein with sequence homology to chitinase was isolated from C. komarovii seeds and named CkChn134. The three-dimensional structure prediction of CkChn134 indicated that the protein has a loop domain formed a thin cleft, which is able to bind molecules and substrates. The protein and CkTLP synergistically inhibited the fungal growth of Verticillium dahliae, Fusarium oxysporum, Rhizoctonia solani, Botrytis cinerea, and Valsa mali in vitro. The full-length cDNA was cloned by RT-PCR and RACE-PCR according to the partial protein sequences obtained by nanoESI-MS/MS. The real-time PCR showed that the transcription level of CkChn134 had a significant increase under the stress of ethylene, NaCl, low temperature, drought, and pathogen infection, which indicates that CkChn134 may play an important role in response to abiotic and biotic stresses. The CkChn134 protein was located in the extracellular space/cell wall by CkChn134::GFP fusion protein in transgenic Arabidopsis. Furthermore, overexpression of CkChn134 significantly enhanced the resistance of transgenic Arabidopsis against V. dahliae. Interestingly, the coexpression of CkChn134 and CkTLP showed substantially greater protection against the fungal pathogen V. dahliae than either transgene alone. The results suggest that the CkChn134 is a good candidate protein or gene, and it had a potential synergistic effect with CkTLP for contributing to the development of disease-resistant crops. 
9792094	19981029	Protein_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Structure of the xylanase from Penicillium simplicissimum.	Despite its relatively low pH and temperature optimum, the xylanase from Penicillium simplicissimum performs exceedingly well under conditions of paper bleaching. We have purified and characterized this enzyme, which belongs to family 10 of glycosyl hydrolases. Its gene was cloned, and the sequence of the protein was deduced from the nucleotide sequence. The xylanase was crystallized from ammonium sulfate at pH 8.4, and X-ray data were collected at cryo-temperature to a crystallographic resolution of 1.75 A. The crystal structure was solved by molecular replacement using the catalytic domain of the Clostridium thermocellum xylanase as a search model, and refined to a residual of R = 20% (R(free) = 23%) for data between 10 and 1.75 A. The xylanase folds in an (alpha/beta)8 barrel (TIM-barrel), with additional helices and loops arranged at the "top" forming the active site cleft. In its overall shape, the P. simplicissimum xylanase structure is similar to other family 10 xylanases, but its active site cleft is much shallower and wider. This probably accounts for the differences in catalysis and in the mode of action of this enzyme. Three glycerol molecules were observed to bind within the active site groove, one of which interacts directly with the catalytic glutamate residues. It appears that they occupy putative xylose binding subsites. 
11402168	20010613	Plant_Cell	D016428 	Production of 6-methylsalicylic acid by expression of a fungal polyketide synthase activates disease resistance in tobacco.	Salicylic acid (SA) has been shown to act as a signal molecule that is produced by many plants subsequent to the recognition of potentially pathogenic microbes. Increases in levels of SA often trigger the activation of plant defenses and can result in increased resistance to subsequent challenge by pathogens. We observed that the polyketide 6-methylsalicylic acid (6-MeSA), a compound that apparently is not endogenous to tobacco, can mimic SA. Tobacco leaves treated with 6-MeSA show enhanced accumulation of the pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins PR1, beta-1,3-glucanase, and chitinase and also develop increased resistance to tobacco mosaic virus. We transformed tobacco with 6msas, the 6-methylsalicylic acid synthase (6MSAS) gene from Penicillium patulum, to generate plants that constitutively accumulate 6-MeSA. Analysis of primary transformants and the first generation progeny of 6MSAS tobacco revealed that plants can be engineered to accumulate significant amounts of 6-MeSA as a conjugate. Levels of total 6-MeSA increased with plant age. Increased 6-MeSA accumulation correlated with increased levels of PR1 and chitinase proteins and resulted in enhanced resistance of NN genotype 6MSAS tobacco to tobacco mosaic virus. Our results demonstrate that a multistep biosynthetic pathway can be engineered into plants using a single fungal polyketide synthase gene. The functional expression of 6msas can be used to activate disease resistance pathways that normally are induced by SA. 
15150397	20040520	Occup_Environ_Med	D016428 D013485 	Exposure-response relations for work related respiratory symptoms and sensitisation in a cohort exposed to alpha-amylase.	To explore relations between exposure to fungal alpha-amylase and the risk of new work related respiratory symptoms or sensitisation. A prospective cohort study among 300 bakers and millers was followed up for a maximum of seven years. Exposure to alpha-amylase was estimated by air measurements and questionnaires and classified into three categories. Symptoms were recorded with a self-administered questionnaire and skin sensitisation assessed using skin prick test (SPT). There were 36 new cases of chest symptoms, 86 of eyes/nose symptoms, and 24 of a positive SPT to alpha-amylase. There were exposure-response relations for chest and eyes/nose symptoms and for sensitisation, and a significantly increased prevalence ratio for chest symptoms in the highest exposure category. A reduction in alpha-amylase exposure is likely to reduce the risk for respiratory morbidity in bakery workers. 
9694829	19980808	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	Multiple functions of Pmt1p-mediated protein O-mannosylation in the fungal pathogen Candida albicans.	Protein mannosylation by Pmt proteins initiates O-glycosylation in fungi. We have identified the PMT1 gene and analyzed the function of Pmt1p in the fungal human pathogen Candida albicans. Mutants defective in PMT1 alleles lacked Pmt in vitro enzymatic activity, showed reduced growth rates, and tended to form cellular aggregates. In addition, multiple specific deficiencies not known in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (including defective hyphal morphogenesis; supersensitivity to the antifungal agents hygromycin B, G418, clotrimazole, and calcofluor white; and reduced adherence to Caco-2 epithelial cells) were observed in pmt1 mutants. PMT1 deficiency also led to faster electrophoretic mobility of the Als1p cell wall protein and to elevated extracellular activities of chitinase. Homozygous pmt1 mutants were avirulent in a mouse model of systemic infection, while heterozygous PMT1/pmt1 strains showed reduced virulence. The results indicate that protein O-mannosylation by Pmt proteins occurs in different fungal species, where PMT1 deficiency can lead to defects in multiple cellular functions. 
1366522	19900401	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Bioconversions in aqueous two-phase systems.	Bioconversions involving enzymes and/or microbial cells in aqueous two-phase systems are reviewed. The partitioning of biocatalysts, substrates, and products is discussed in relation to their size. The efficiency of retaining biocatalysts in aqueous two-phase systems is summarized in relation to other methods of recirculating. The influence of phase components on the activity and the stability of enzymatic biocatalysts is exemplified with penicillin acylase and the cellulolytic enzyme system, and the effect of phase components on biocatalytic living cells is exemplified with the production of alpha-amylase with Bacillus sp. Process design costs in bioconversions in aqueous two-phase systems are briefly summarized. 
17573712	20070619	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of extracellular pectin lyase from Penicillium canescens.	Pectin lyase A (molecular weight 38 kD by SDS-PAGE, pI 6.7) was purified to homogeneity from culture broth of the mycelial fungus Penicillium canescens using chromatographic techniques. During genomic library screening, the gene encoding pectin lyase A from P. canescens (pelA) was isolated and sequenced, and the amino acid sequence was generated by applying the multiple alignment procedure (360 residues). A theoretical model for the three dimensional structure of the protein molecule was also proposed. Different properties of pectin lyase A were investigated: substrate specificity, pH- and temperature optimum of activity, stability under different pH and temperature conditions, and the effect of Ca2+ on enzyme activity. In the course of the laboratory trials, it was demonstrated that pectin lyase A from P. canescens could be successfully applied to production and clarification of juice. 
17973091	20071102	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Biotechnological applications and potential of fungal feruloyl esterases based on prevalence, classification and biochemical diversity.	Feruloyl esterases are part of the enzymatic spectrum employed by fungi and other microorganisms to degrade plant polysaccharides. They release ferulic acid and other aromatic acids from these polymeric structures and have received an increasing interest in industrial applications such as in the food, pulp and paper and bio-fuel industries. This review provides an overview of the current knowledge on fungal feruloyl esterases focussing in particular on the differences in substrate specificity, regulation of their production, prevalence of these enzymes in fungal genomes and industrial applications. 
8962147	19961210	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	Mycoparasitic interaction relieves binding of the Cre1 carbon catabolite repressor protein to promoter sequences of the ech42 (endochitinase-encoding) gene in Trichoderma harzianum.	The fungus Trichoderma harzianum is a potent mycoparasite of various plant pathogenic fungi. We have studied the molecular regulation of mycoparasitism in the host/mycoparasite system Botrytis cinerea/T. harzianum. Protein extracts, prepared from various stages of mycoparasitism, were used in electrophoretic mobility-shift assays (EM-SAs) with two promoter fragments of the ech-42 (42-kDa endochitinase-encoding) gene of T. harzianum. This gene was chosen as a model because its expression is triggered during mycoparasitic interaction [Carsolio, C., Gutierrez, A., Jimenez, B., van Montagu, M. & Herrera-Estrella, A. (1994) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91, 10903-10907]. All cell-free extracts formed high-molecular weight protein-DNA complexes, but those obtained from mycelia activated for mycoparasitic attack formed a complex with greater mobility. Competition experiments, using oligonucleotides containing functional and nonfunctional consensus sites for binding of the carbon catabolite repressor Cre1, provided evidence that the complex from nonmycoparasitic mycelia involves the binding of Cre1 to both fragments of the ech-42 promoter. The presence of two and three consensus sites for binding of Cre1 in the two ech-42 promoter fragments used is consistent with these findings. In contrast, the formation of the protein-DNA complex from mycoparasitic mycelia is unaffected by the addition of the competing oligonucleotides and hence does not involve Cre1. Addition of equal amounts of protein of cell-free extracts from nonmycoparasitic mycelia converted the mycoparasitic DNA-protein complex into the nonmycoparasitic complex. The addition of the purified Cre1::glutathione S-transferase protein to mycoparasitic cell-free extracts produced the same effect. These findings suggest that ech-42 expression in T. harzianum is regulated by (i) binding of Cre1 to two single sites in the ech-42 promoter, (ii) binding of a "mycoparasitic" protein-protein complex to the ech-42 promoter in vicinity of the Cre1 binding sites, and (iii) functional inactivation of Cre1 upon mycoparasitic interaction to enable the formation of the mycoparasitic protein-DNA complex. 
10613893	19991230	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013486 	A celR mutation affecting transcription of cellulase genes in Thermobifida fusca.	Biosynthesis of extracellular cellulases in the cellulose-degrading actinomycete Thermobifida fusca is controlled by a transcriptional regulator, CelR, and cellobiose, which acts as an inducer interfering with the CelR-DNA interaction. We report the identification and characterization of a mutation in the celR gene that changes Ala(55) in the hinge helix of CelR to Thr. The wild-type and mutant celR genes were cloned in Escherichia coli, and their protein products were characterized. The CelR mutant protein bound DNA more weakly than the wild-type protein and formed a less stable complex with DNA in the presence of cellobiose. The results of Western analysis and gel retardation experiments suggest that CelR is produced constitutively and its DNA-binding activity is regulated through posttranslational modification. 
12755631	20030521	Biochemistry	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Structural and morphological diversity of (1-->3)-beta-D-glucans synthesized in vitro by enzymes from Saprolegnia monoïca. Comparison with a corresponding in vitro product from blackberry (Rubus fruticosus).	Detergent extracts of microsomal fractions from Saprolegnia monoïca and blackberry (Rubus fruticosus) cells were incubated with UDP-glucose to yield in vitro (1-->3)-beta-d-glucans. The insoluble products were analyzed by conventional and cryo transmission electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and (13)C CP/MAS NMR, and their molecular weights were determined by light scattering experiments. All the products were microfibrillar, but for the detergent extracts from S. monoïca, important morphological differences were observed when the pH of the synthesizing medium was modified. At pH 6, the product had a weight average degree of polymerization () exceeding 20 000 and consisted of endless ribbon-like microfibrils. The microfibrils obtained at pH 9 had a length of only 200-300 nm, and their was approximately 5000. Of all the in vitro (1-->3)-beta-d-glucans, the one from R. fruticosus had the shortest length and the smallest. Crystallographic and spectroscopic data showed that the three in vitro samples consisted of triple helices of (1-->3)-beta-d-glucans and contained substantial amounts of water molecules in their structure, the shortest microfibrils being more hydrated. In addition, the long microfibrils from S. monoïca synthesized at pH 6 were more resistant toward the action of an endo-(1-->3)-beta-d-glucanase than the shorter ones obtained at pH 9. These results are discussed in terms of molecular biosynthetic mechanisms of fungal and plant (1-->3)-beta-d-glucans, and in relation with the possible existence of several (1-->3)-beta-d-glucan synthases in a given organism. The interpretation and discussion of these observations integrate the current knowledge of the structure and function of (1-->3)-beta-d-glucans. 
10852969	20000615	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	Pectin engineering: modification of potato pectin by in vivo expression of an endo-1,4-beta-D-galactanase.	Potato tuber pectin is rich in galactan (oligomer of beta-1,4-linked galactosyl residues). We have expressed a fungal endo-galactanase cDNA in potato under control of the granule bound starch synthase promoter to obtain expression of the enzyme in tubers during growth. The transgenic plants displayed no altered phenotype compared with the wild type. Fungal endo-galactanase activity was quantified in the transgenic tubers, and its expression was verified by Western blot analysis. The effect of the endo-galactanase activity on potato tuber pectin was studied by Fourier transform infrared microspectroscopy, immuno-gold labeling, and sugar analysis. All analyses revealed alterations in pectin composition. Monosaccharide composition of total cell walls and isolated rhamnogalacturonan I fragments showed a reduction in galactosyl content to 30% in the transformants compared with the wild type. Increased solubility of pectin from transgenic cell walls by endo-polygalacturonase/pectin methylesterase digestion points to other changes in wall architecture. 
19860881	20091029	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Tetrapisispora phaffii killer toxin is a highly specific beta-glucanase that disrupts the integrity of the yeast cell wall.	Killer yeasts have been used to combat contaminating wild yeasts in food, to control pathogenic fungi in plants, and in the medical field, to develop novel antimycotics for the treatment of human and animal fungal infections. Among these killer yeasts, Tetrapisispora phaffii (formerly known as Kluyveromyces phaffii) secretes a glycoprotein known as Kpkt that is lethal to spoilage yeasts under winemaking conditions. In the present study, the mode of action of Kpkt, and the specific damage produced by this toxin on sensitive yeasts is investigated. The use of castanospermine, a beta-glucanase inhibitor, demonstrated that beta-glucanase activity is essential for the Kpkt killer activity in vivo. Accordingly, Kpkt has no killer activity on either sensitive yeast spheroplasts or whole sensitive cells in the presence of isosmothic medium (0.8 molar sorbitol). Kpkt induces ultrastructural modifications in the cell wall of sensitive strains, as shown by confocal microscopy, laser-scanning electron microscopy, and atomic force microscopy. The Kpkt killer action is mediated by the glucidic portion of the toxin. This, in turn, appears to be involved both in the stronger cytocidal activity and in the selectivity for the sensitive strain shown by Kpkt compared to laminarinase. Collectively, these data indicate that the mode of action of Kpkt is directed towards the disruption of cell-wall integrity, and that this is mediated by a highly specific beta-glucanase activity. In this, Kpkt differs from other microbial beta-glucanases that do not show killer activities. 
12139014	20020726	J._Antibiot.	D016428 D013485 	Novel alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, CKD-711 and CKD-711a produced by Streptomyces sp. CK-4416. II. Biological properties.	CKD-711 and CKD-711a are aminooligosaccharide alpha-glucosidase inhibitors discovered during the bioactive material screening for antibacterial agent. Their inhibitory activities were studied and compared with those of acarbose in vitro and in vivo with animals. In in vitro study, CKD-711 showed similar effects to acarbose on porcine intestinal maltase and sucrase, IC50s of 2.5 and 0.5 microg/ml, respectively, whereas it had about 2 fold lower alpha-amylase inhibitory activity (IC50, 78.0 microg/ml) than acarbose (IC50, 36 microg/ml). CKD-711a showed less inhibitory activity than CKD-711 against all the enzymes tested. In rat fed on starch and sucrose meals, the dose of CKD-711 which reduced the postprandial blood glucose increment by 50 percent in comparison to control rats (ED50) were 3.07 and 1.15 mg/kg, respectively, and acarbose had ED50s of 1.94 and 1.15 mg/kg, respectively. CKD-711 and CKD-711a also showed antibacterial activity against Comamonas terrigena. 
11559354	20010918	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Neurotensin induces mating in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells that express human neurotensin receptor type 1 in place of the endogenous pheromone receptor.	Heterologous expression of the human neurotensin receptor type I (hNT1-R) has been achieved in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Immunoanalysis of membranes prepared from cells expressing a c-myc-tagged version of hNT1-R revealed multiple c-myc cross-reacting polypeptides of high molecular mass, suggesting that hNT1-R was glycosylated in yeast. High-affinity binding sites for 125I-labeled-[monoiodo-Tyr3]neurotensin ([125I-Tyr3]NT) were detected on hNT1-R-expressing cells with Kd and Bmax values of 3.2 nM and of 500 receptors per cell, respectively. Competition binding studies of neurotensin with SR142948 and SR48692, two nonpeptidic antagonists of hNT1-R, indicated that the yeast-produced recombinant receptor displayed the same pharmacological properties as hNT1-R expressed in mammalian cells. Interestingly, neurotensin activated the pheromone pathway in hNT1-R-expressing cells in a dose-dependent fashion, as revealed by a beta-galactosidase activity assay with a pheromone-responsive Fus1:lacZ construct. Mutational inactivation of the SST2 and STE2 genes increased the level of beta-galactosidase activity in response to neurotensin by twofold. Recombinant hNT1-R-producing cells, which lacked the endogenous G-protein-coupled receptor for the alpha pheromone, mated with wild-type MATalpha haploid cells in response to neurotensin, leading to bona fide diploid zygote formation. This is the first report of a mammalian receptor that can replace the endogenous pheromone receptor when produced in yeast, by signaling a fully effective, agonist-induced, mating process. 
19923748	20091120	Acta_Crystallogr._Sect._F_Struct._Biol._Cryst._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of beta-glucosidase from Kluyveromyces marxianus NBRC1777.	The intracellular beta-glucosidase from Kluyveromyces marxianus NBRC1777 (KmBglI) belongs to glycoside hydrolase family 3 and has a unique domain architecture. Selenomethionine-labelled KmBglI was purified and crystallized by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method using the purified enzyme at 30 mg ml(-1), 0.04 M potassium dihydrogen phosphate pH 5.1, 16%(w/v) PEG 8000 and 20%(v/v) glycerol. The crystal belonged to space group C2, with unitcell parameters a = 245.8, b = 148.7, c = 119.9 angstrom, beta = 112.9 degrees. Multiple-wavelength anomalous dispersion data were collected at 2.4 and 2.5 angstrom resolution. A tetramer was assumed to be present in the asymmetric unit, which gave a Matthews coefficient of 2.6 angstrom(3) Da(-1). 
23889585	20130730	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Polysaccharide-inducible endoglucanases from Lentinula edodes exhibit a preferential hydrolysis of 1,3-1,4-β-glucan and xyloglucan.	Three genes encoding glycoside hydrolase family 12 (GH12) enzymes from Lentinula edodes, namely Lecel12A, Lecel12B, and Lecel12C, were newly cloned by PCR using highly conserved sequence primers. To investigate enzymatic properties, recombinant enzymes encoded by L. edodes DNAs and GH12 genes from Postia placenta (PpCel12A and PpCel12B) and Schizophyllum commune (ScCel12A) were prepared in Brevibacillus choshinensis. Recombinant LeCel12A, PpCel12A, and PpCel12B, which were grouped in GH12 subfamily 1, preferentially hydrolyzed 1,3-1,4-β-glucan. By contrast, LeCel12B, LeCel12C, and ScCel12A, members of the subfamily 2, exhibited specific hydrolysis of xyloglucan. These results suggest that two subfamilies of GH12 are separated based on the substrate specificity. Transcript levels of L. edodes genes increased 72 h after growth of L. edodes mycelia cells in the presence of plant cell wall polymers such as xyloglucan, 1,3-1,4-β-glucan, and cellulose. These results suggest that L. edodes GH12 enzymes have evolved to hydrolyze 1,3-1,4-β-glucan and xyloglucan, which might enhance hyphal extension and nutrient acquisition.  
7874735	19941101	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Construction by one-step gene replacement of Trichoderma reesei strains that produce the glucoamylase P of Hormoconis resinae.	Two one-step gene replacement vectors containing either the Hormoconis resinae glucoamylase P (gamP) genomic gene or the corresponding cDNA, each under the control of the promoter of the Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase 1 gene (cbh1), were constructed and used to replace the cbh1 gene in a T. reesei strain. In both vectors the cbh1 promoter is precisely fused to the gamP protein coding region. Both the gamP cDNA and the genomic gene direct the secretion of the active glucoamylase P (GAMP) enzyme from T. reesei, which indicates that the intron sequences in the genomic gamP gene are processed in T. reesei. According to the results, a T. reesei transformant strain, in which the cbh1 gene has been replaced by a single copy of the gamP genomic gene, secretes more active GAMP than does a transformant strain having three copies of the cDNA clone in tandem orientation at the cbh1 locus. 
1550443	19920101	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of coculture of anaerobic fungi isolated from ruminants and non-ruminants with methanogenic bacteria on cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzyme activities.	Neocallimastix strain N1, an isolate from a ruminant (sheep), was cocultured with three Methanobacterium formicicum strains, Methanosarcina barkeri, and Methanobrevibacter smithii. The coculture with Methanobacterium formicicum strains resulted in the highest production of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes. Subsequently four anaerobic fungi, two Neocallimastix strains (N1 and N2) from a ruminant and two Piromyces species from non-ruminants (E2 and R1), were grown in coculture with Methanobacterium formicicum DSM 3637 on filter paper cellulose and monitored over a 7-day period for substrate utilisation, fermentation products, and secretion of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes. Methanogens caused a shift in fermentation products to more acetate and less ethanol, lactate and succinate. Furthermore the cellulose digestion rate increased by coculture. For cocultures of Neocallimastix strains with Methanobacterium formicicum strains the cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzyme production increased. Avicelase, CMCase and xylanase were almost completely secreted into the medium, while 40-60% of the beta-glucosidase was found to be cell bound. Coculture had no significant effect on the location of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes. 
11272833	20010329	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Sequence analysis and overexpression of a pectin lyase gene (pel1) from Aspergillus oryzae KBN616.	A gene (pel1) encoding pectin lyase (Pel1) was isolated from a shoyu koji mold, Aspergillus oryzae KBN616, and characterized. The structural gene comprised 1,196 bp with a single intron. The ORF encoded 381 amino acids with a signal peptide of 20 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence showed high similarity to those of Aspergillus niger pectin lyases and Glomerella cingulata PnlA. The pel1 gene was successfully overexpressed under the promoter of the A. oryzae TEF1 gene. The molecular mass of the recombinant pectin lyase substantially coincided with that calculated based on nucleotide sequence. 
21626207	20110601	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of xylanolytic enzymes by Aspergillus terricola in stirred tank and airlift tower loop bioreactors.	Fungi producing high xylanase levels have attracted considerable attention because of their potential industrial applications. Batch cultivations of Aspergillus terricola fungus were evaluated in stirred tank and airlift bioreactors, by using wheat bran particles suspended in the cultivation medium as substrate for xylanase and β-xylosidase production. In the stirred tank bioreactor, in physical conditions of 30°C, 300 rpm, and aeration of 1 vvm (1 l min⁻¹), with direct inoculation of fungal spores, 7,475 U l⁻¹ xylanase was obtained after 36 h of operation, remaining constant after 24 h. In the absence of air injection in the stirred tank reactor, limited xylanase production was observed (final concentration 740 U l⁻¹). When the fermentation process was realized in the airlift bioreactor, xylanase production was higher than that observed in the stirred tank bioreactor, being 9,265 U l⁻¹ at 0.07 vvm (0.4 l min⁻¹) and 12,845 U l⁻¹ at 0.17 vvm (1 l min⁻¹) aeration rate. 
1367786	19910101	Phytochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Xyloglucan oligosaccharide alpha-L-fucosidase activity from growing pea stems and germinating nasturtium seeds.	[14C]Fucose-labelled xyloglucan (XG) was synthesized from tamarind seed XG by incubating it with GDP-[14C]fucose plus solubilized pea fucosyltransferase, and [14C]fucose-labelled XG nonasaccharide was prepared from the parent hemicellulose by partial hydrolysis with fungal cellulase. alpha-L-Fucosidase activity was readily detected in crude enzyme extracts of growing regions of etiolated pea stems (Pisum sativum) and in cotyledons of germinating nasturtium seedlings (Tropaeolum majus) using the fucosylated XG-nonasaccharide as substrate. Both enzymes showed little activity against intact fucosylated XG and they were totally inactive against p-nitrophenyl-alpha-L-fucoside. Auxin treatment of pea stems, which greatly increased the activity of endo-1,4-beta-glucanases that hydrolyse XG in apical growing regions, failed to result in a similar increase in XG-nonasaccharide alpha-fucosidase activity. However, germination of nasturtium seed, which resulted in a large increase in endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (XG-ase) activity in the cotyledons, was accompanied by comparable increases in XG-alpha-fucosidase activity. 
21704202	20110628	N_Biotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Strategy for purification of aggregation prone β-glucosidases from the cell wall of yeast: a preparative scale approach.	Purification of biotechnologically important proteins is of vital interest to the biotech industry. β-Glucosidases, belonging to Family 1 and Family 3 of the glycosylhydrolases, have varied applications as carbohydrate hydrolyzing and synthesizing enzymes. Obtaining high quantities of these enzymes is important for exploring their biosynthetic potential, structural information and catalytic activities. Classical methods for their preparation fail to deliver high yields because of adoption of several/hydroxyapatite chromatography steps. We report here a preparative method for purification of large quantities of two closely related cell bound β-glucosidases (BGL I and BGL II) from Pichia etchellsii that belong to Family 3 glycosylhydrolases. A combination of ion-exchange and gel filtration chromatography was used to process milligram quantities of protein with recoveries of up to 53%. A simple affinity based separation resulted in resolution of BGL I and BGL II with high recovery and high specific activities of 74IU/mg and 32IU/mg protein respectively. Peptide sequences of BGL II indicated it to be a novel member of Family 3. Methods reported here present a successful strategy for obtaining large quantities of these enzymes. 
22222829	20120107	Prog._Mol._Subcell._Biol.	D016428 	Fungal life in the dead sea.	The waters of the Dead Sea currently contain about 348 g/l salts (2 M Mg(2+), 0.5 M Ca(2+), 1.5 M Na(+), 0.2 M K(+), 6.5 M Cl(-), 0.1 M Br(-)). The pH is about 6.0. After rainy winters the surface waters become diluted, triggering development of microbial blooms. The 1980 and 1992 blooms were dominated by the unicellular green alga Dunaliella and red Archaea. At least 70 species (in 26 genera) of Oomycota (Chromista), Mucoromycotina, Ascomycota, and Basidiomycota (Fungi) were isolated from near-shore localities and offshore stations, including from deep waters. Aspergillus and Eurotium were most often recovered. Aspergillus terreus, A. sydowii, A. versicolor, Eurotium herbariorum, Penicillium westlingii, Cladosporium cladosporioides, C. sphaerospermum, C. ramnotellum, and C. halotolerans probably form the stable core of the community. The species Gymnascella marismortui may be endemic. Mycelia of Dead Sea isolates of A. versicolor and Chaetomium globosum remained viable for up to 8 weeks in Dead Sea water; mycelia of other species survived for many weeks in 50% Dead Sea water. Many isolates showed a very high tolerance to magnesium salts. There is no direct proof that fungi contribute to the heterotrophic activity in the Dead Sea, but fungi may be present at least locally and temporarily, and their enzymatic activities such as amylase, protease, and cellulase may play a role in the lake's ecosystem. 
10323234	19990514	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Two xylanase genes of the vascular wilt pathogen Fusarium oxysporum are differentially expressed during infection of tomato plants.	Two genes encoding putative family F xylanases from the tomato vascular wilt pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici have been cloned and sequenced. The two genes, designated xyl2 and xyl3, encode proteins with calculated molecular masses of 33 and 39.3 kDa and isoelectric points of 8.9 and 6.7, respectively. The predicted amino acid sequences show significant homology to other family F xylanases. XYL3 contains a cellulose-binding domain in its N-terminal region. Southern analysis suggested that xyl2 and xyl3 homologs are also present in other formae speciales of F. oxysporum. Both genes were expressed during growth on oat spelt xylan and tomato vascular tissue in vitro. RT-PCR revealed that xyl3 is expressed in roots and in the lower stems of tomato plants infected by F. oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici throughout the whole disease cycle, whereas xyl2 is only expressed during the final stages of disease. 
23994224	20130903	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Chitinases biosynthesis by immobilized Aeromonas hydrophila SBK1 by prawn shells valorization and application of enzyme cocktail for fungal protoplast preparation.	Production and optimization of β-N-acetyl glucosaminidase and chitinase by Ca-alginate immobilized Aeromonas hydrophila SBK1 was carried out using prawn shell as cost-effective substrate. Beads prepared with 5.0% Na-alginate (containing 2.0% colloidal chitin) and 1.0 M CaCl2 showed considerable beads integrity and supported maximum production of chitinolytic enzymes. Bead diameter, 3 mm; temperature, 35°C; pH 7.0; agitation, 90 rpm were found ideal for the maximum production of the enzymes. The fermentation and thermodynamic indices revealed the feasibility of immobilized cells over free cells for enzymes production. Reasonable amount of chitosaccharides (degree of polymerization; 1-6) accumulated in the production media which have paramount antioxidant activity. Scale up experiment was successfully carried out in 5 L fermentor. In immobilized state, the chitosaccharides yield and antioxidant activity increased about 44.76% and 22.22%, whereas specific productivity of β-N-acetyl glucosaminidase and chitinase increased by 22.86% and 33.37% over free state. The cell entrapped beads can be reused upto ten cycles without marked loss of its biocatalytic efficiency. High level of protoplast of Aspergillus niger was generated by treating mycelia with 10 U/ml of crude chitinase after 4 h at pH 7.0 and in the temperature 35-40°C, and 67% of the protoplasts were found to be regenerated.  
10966076	20000831	J._Antibiot.	D016428 D013485 	Argifin, a new chitinase inhibitor, produced by Gliocladium sp. FTD-0668. I. Taxonomy, fermentation, and biological activities.	A new chitinase inhibitor, named argifin, was isolated from the cultured broth of a fungal strain FTD-0668. The strain was identified as Gliocladium sp. from morphological characteristics. The IC50 value of argifin against Lucilia cuprina chitinase was 3.7 microM. Argifin arrested the moult of cockroach larvae upon injection into the ventral abdominal part. 
22544243	20120501	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Aspergillus niger DLFCC-90 rhamnoside hydrolase, a new type of flavonoid glycoside hydrolase.	A novel rutin-α-L-rhamnosidase hydrolyzing α-L-rhamnoside of rutin, naringin, and hesperidin was purified and characterized from Aspergillus niger DLFCC-90, and the gene encoding this enzyme, which is highly homologous to the α-amylase gene, was cloned and expressed in Pichia pastoris GS115. The novel enzyme was classified in glycoside-hydrolase (GH) family 13. 
22544251	20120501	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	The wood rot ascomycete Xylaria polymorpha produces a novel GH78 glycoside hydrolase that exhibits α-L-rhamnosidase and feruloyl esterase activities and releases hydroxycinnamic acids from lignocelluloses.	Soft rot (type II) fungi belonging to the family Xylariaceae are known to substantially degrade hardwood by means of their poorly understood lignocellulolytic system, which comprises various hydrolases, including feruloyl esterases and laccase. In the present study, several members of the Xylariaceae were found to exhibit high feruloyl esterase activity during growth on lignocellulosic materials such as wheat straw (up to 1,675 mU g(-1)) or beech wood (up to 80 mU g(-1)). Following the ester-cleaving activity toward methyl ferulate, a hydrolase of Xylaria polymorpha was produced in solid-state culture on wheat straw and purified by different steps of anion-exchange and size-exclusion chromatography to apparent homogeneity (specific activity, 2.2 U mg(-1)). The peptide sequence of the purified protein deduced from the gene sequence and verified by de novo peptide sequencing shows high similarity to putative α-L-rhamnosidase sequences belonging to the glycoside hydrolase family 78 (GH78; classified under EC 3.2.1.40). The purified enzyme (98 kDa by SDS-PAGE, 103 kDa by size-exclusion chromatography; pI 3.7) converted diverse glycosides (e.g., α-L-rhamnopyranoside and α-L-arabinofuranoside) but also natural and synthetic esters (e.g., chlorogenic acid, hydroxycinnamic acid glycoside esters, veratric acid esters, or p-nitrophenyl acetate) and released free hydroxycinnamic acids (ferulic and coumaric acid) from arabinoxylan and milled wheat straw. These catalytic properties strongly suggest that X. polymorpha GH78 is a multifunctional enzyme. It is the first fungal enzyme that combines glycosyl hydrolase with esterase activities and may help this soft rot fungus to degrade lignocelluloses. 
17020137	20061006	Acta_Vet._Hung.	D016428 	Rumen fermentation response to a direct-fed xylanase enzyme preparation from Thermomyces lanuginosus in sheep.	A study was conducted to obtain data on the effects of a fungal fibrolytic enzyme preparation (Rumino-zyme, with 250 FXU/g xylanase activities) from Thermomyces lanuginosus on some rumen fermentation parameters in sheep. Ruminal fluid samples were taken just before the morning feeding and then 2 h and 4 h after feeding. Xylanase activity, pH, concentration of ammonia and volatile fatty acids were measured. The enzyme supplementation did not affect the pH but increased the xylanase activity and the total VFA concentration of the rumen fluid. The molar proportion of acetate increased, propionate was not affected and butyrate decreased after enzyme administration. The concentration of ammonia also decreased after supplementation with the enzyme product. It can be concluded that the xylanase enzyme preparation from T. lanuginosus induced favourable changes in the major rumen fermentation parameters in sheep. 
16346147	19821201	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Purification and Properties of beta-Glucosidase from Aspergillus terreus.	A beta-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21) from the fungus Aspergillus terreus was purified to homogeneity as indicated by disc acrylamide gel electrophoresis. Optimal activity was observed at pH 4.8 and 50 degrees C. The beta-glucosidase had K(m) values of 0.78 and 0.40 mM for p-nitrophenyl-beta-d-glucopyranoside and cellobiose, respectively. Glucose was a competitive inhibitor, with a K(i) of 3.5 mM when p-nitrophenyl-beta-d-glucopyranoside was used as the substrate. The specific activity of the enzyme was found to be 210 IU and 215 U per mg of protein on p-nitrophenyl-beta-d-glucopyranoside and cellobiose substrates, respectively. Cations, proteases, and enzyme inhibitors had little or no effect on the enzyme activity. The beta-glucosidase was found to be a glycoprotein containing 65% carbohydrate by weight. It had a Stokes radius of 5.9 nm and an approximate molecular weight of 275,000. The affinity and specific activity that the isolated beta-glucosidase exhibited for cellobiose compared favorably with the values obtained for beta-glucosidases from other organisms being studied for use in industrial cellulose saccharification. 
22496740	20120413	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Proteomic analysis of Fusarium solani isolated from the Asian longhorned beetle, Anoplophora glabripennis.	Wood is a highly intractable food source, yet many insects successfully colonize and thrive in this challenging niche. Overcoming the lignin barrier of wood is a key challenge in nutrient acquisition, but full depolymerization of intact lignin polymers has only been conclusively demonstrated in fungi and is not known to occur by enzymes produced by insects or bacteria. Previous research validated that lignocellulose and hemicellulose degradation occur within the gut of the wood boring insect, Anoplophora glabripennis (Asian longhorned beetle), and that a fungal species, Fusarium solani (ATCC MYA 4552), is consistently associated with the larval stage. While the nature of this relationship is unresolved, we sought to assess this fungal isolate's ability to degrade lignocellulose and cell wall polysaccharides and to extract nutrients from woody tissue. This gut-derived fungal isolate was inoculated onto a wood-based substrate and shotgun proteomics using Multidimensional Protein Identification Technology (MudPIT) was employed to identify 400 expressed proteins. Through this approach, we detected proteins responsible for plant cell wall polysaccharide degradation, including proteins belonging to 28 glycosyl hydrolase families and several cutinases, esterases, lipases, pectate lyases, and polysaccharide deacetylases. Proteinases with broad substrate specificities and ureases were observed, indicating that this isolate has the capability to digest plant cell wall proteins and recycle nitrogenous waste under periods of nutrient limitation. Additionally, several laccases, peroxidases, and enzymes involved in extracellular hydrogen peroxide production previously implicated in lignin depolymerization were detected. In vitro biochemical assays were conducted to corroborate MudPIT results and confirmed that cellulases, glycosyl hydrolases, xylanases, laccases, and Mn- independent peroxidases were active in culture; however, lignin- and Mn- dependent peroxidase activities were not detected While little is known about the role of filamentous fungi and their associations with insects, these findings suggest that this isolate has the endogenous potential to degrade lignocellulose and extract nutrients from woody tissue. 
17924946	20071011	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	The D-xylose reductase of Hypocrea jecorina is the major aldose reductase in pentose and D-galactose catabolism and necessary for beta-galactosidase and cellulase induction by lactose.	The Hypocrea jecorina D-xylose reductase encoding gene xyl1 shows low basal transcript levels, and is induced by D-xylose, L-arabinose and L-arabinitol and, to a lesser extent, by lactose, D-galactose, galactitol and xylitol. The recombinantly expressed XYL1 catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of the pentoses D-xylose and L-arabinose and the hexose D-galactose. Deletion of xyl1 slightly reduces growth on all carbon sources, but a significant decrease is found on D-xylose, L-arabinose and D-galactose. Similar to pentose degradation, XYL1 reduces D-galactose to galactitol in a recently identified second D-galactose pathway. Strains impaired in both D-galactose pathways are almost unable to grow on D-galactose. Deltaxyl1 strains show reduced growth on lactose and are impaired in beta-galactosidase expression and induction of the major cellobiohydrolase gene cbh1. A strain deleted in the cellulase regulator XYR1 is even more severely impaired in growth and beta-galactosidase expression on lactose, and does not produce any cbh1 transcript at all. In this strain, only a low basal level of xyl1 transcription is found on lactose. Galactitol, but not D-galactose is able to induce xyl1 transcription in a XYR1-independent manner. Our results show that the role of the H. jecorina XYL1 is not restricted to D-xylose catabolism and demonstrates its importance for induction of cellulases and beta-galactosidases. 
22359366	20120224	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 	Statistical optimization of medium components for production of extracellular chitinase by Basidiobolus ranarum: a novel biocontrol agent against plant pathogenic fungi.	The influence of concentration of medium components such as colloidal chitin, lactose, malt extract, yeast extract, and peptone on the chitinase production from Basidiobolous ranarum at the flask level were studied by using statistical tool Central Composite Design (CCD) and analysed by Response Surface Methodology (RSM). The results revealed that colloidal chitin, malt extract and peptone had significant effect (P < 0.01) on the chitinase production at their individual levels. The polynomial equation of the model developed incorporates 3 linear, 3 quadratic and 5 interactive terms. Maximum chitinase production of 3.47 U ml(-1) was achieved with 1.5% colloidal chitin, 0.125% lactose, 0.025% malt extract and 0.075% peptone. After optimization, chitinase activity was increased by 7.71 fold. A second order polynomial equation was found to be useful for the development of efficient bioprocess for chitinase production. To screen the biotechnological potential of this enzyme, degradation of fungal mycelia by ammonium sulphate precipitate of the same was studied for several pathogenic fungi-in vitro which showed promising results particularly against Rhizoctonia solani and Fusarium solani. This study provides the first evidence showing the effectiveness of RSM for the development of a robust statistical model for the chitinase production by Basidiobolus and for its application in the biocontrol of phytopathogenic fungi. 
3022234	19861010	Nucleic_Acids_Res.	D016428 D013486 D013487 	Analysis of the Kluyveromyces lactis positive regulatory gene LAC9 reveals functional homology to, but sequence divergence from, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae GAL4 gene.	The galactose metabolism positive regulatory gene from Kluyveromyces lactis, LAC9, has been isolated through its ability to activate expression of galactose metabolism enzyme genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The LAC9 gene also activates expression of the S. cerevisiae alpha-galactosidase (MEL1) and K. lactis beta-galactosidase (LAC4) genes in S. cerevisiae. Although LAC9-activated gene expression in K. lactis is not glucose repressed, activation of MEL1 gene expression by LAC9 in S. cerevisiae is. The LAC9 gene is expressed at an extremely low level as a approximately 2.9-kb mRNA, and encodes a protein of 865 amino acids. Although the LAC9 gene is functionally analogous to the S. cerevisiae GAL4 gene, the bulk of its protein sequence shows little homology to that of GAL4. Two of the three regions of homology that do exist, however, are restricted to areas of GAL4 protein already implicated in nuclear localization, DNA binding, and transcriptional activation. 
16243363	20051026	Mar._Pollut._Bull.	D016428 D013485 	Occurrence of estrogen-like substances in the marine environment of the Northern Mediterranean Sea.	Evidence has been presented that a number of environmental agents perturbs the function of the sex hormone signalling pathways in marine animals. In this work the estrogenic/antiestrogenic activity of coastal marine water samples from five sites of the Northern Mediterranean Sea was assayed using a recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast strain (RMY326 ER-ERE) transfected with the human estrogen receptor alpha. Extraction of potential EDCs from seawater was performed in columns packed with XAD-2 resins. The estrogenic activity was calculated as percentage of the activity of 17beta-estradiol (10 nM) and it ranged from 4.8% and 59.03%, significantly depending on sampling site (p=0.0013) and season (p<0.05). Antagonistic activity of extracts was also detected and the percentage of inhibition of estradiol-dependent beta-galactosidase induction ranged to 52.8%. These results point the reliability of the yeast assay as a first level screening test to assess the quality of aquatic environments. 
21466666	20110407	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 	GH10 xylanase D from Penicillium funiculosum: biochemical studies and xylooligosaccharide production.	The filamentous fungus Penicillium funiculosum produces a range of glycoside hydrolases (GH). The XynD gene, encoding the sole P. funiculosum GH10 xylanase described so far, was cloned into the pPICZαA vector and expressed in methylotrophe yeast Pichia pastoris, in order to compare the results obtained with the P. funiculosum GH11 xylanases data. High level expression of recombinant XynD was obtained with a secretion of around 60 mg.L-1. The protein was purified to homogeneity using one purification step. The apparent size on SDS-PAGE was around 64 kDa and was 46 kDa by mass spectrometry thus higher than the expected molecular mass of 41 kDa. The recombinant protein was N- and O-glycosylated, as demonstrated using glycoprotein staining and deglycosylation reactions, which explained the discrepancy in molecular mass. Enzyme-catalysed hydrolysis of low viscosity arabinoxylan (LVAX) was maximal at pH 5.0 with Km(app) and kcat/Km(app) of 3.7 ± 0.2 (mg.mL-1) and 132 (s-1mg-1.mL), respectively. The activity of XynD was optimal at 80°C and the recombinant enzyme has shown an interesting high thermal stability at 70°C for at least 180 min without loss of activity. The enzyme had an endo-mode of action on xylan forming mainly xylobiose and short-chain xylooligosaccharides (XOS). The initial rate data from the hydrolysis of short XOS indicated that the catalytic efficiency increased slightly with increasing their chain length with a small difference of the XynD catalytic efficiency against the different XOS. Because of its attractive properties XynD might be considered for biotechnological applications. Moreover, XOS hydrolysis suggested that XynD possess four catalytic subsites with a high energy of interaction with the substrate and a fifth subsite with a small energy of interaction, according to the GH10 xylanase literature data. 
18843045	20081010	Mol._Biol._Cell	D016428 D052061 D013485 	The yeast LATS/Ndr kinase Cbk1 regulates growth via Golgi-dependent glycosylation and secretion.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cbk1 is a LATS/Ndr protein kinase and a downstream component of the regulation of Ace2 and morphogenesis (RAM) signaling network. Cbk1 and the RAM network are required for cellular morphogenesis, cell separation, and maintenance of cell integrity. Here, we examine the phenotypes of conditional cbk1 mutants to determine the essential function of Cbk1. Cbk1 inhibition severely disrupts growth and protein secretion, and triggers the Swe1-dependent morphogenesis checkpoint. Cbk1 inhibition also delays the polarity establishment of the exocytosis regulators Rab-GTPase Sec4 and its exchange factor Sec2, but it does not interfere with actin polarity establishment. Cbk1 binds to and phosphorylates Sec2, suggesting that it regulates Sec4-dependent exocytosis. Intriguingly, Cbk1 inhibition causes a >30% decrease in post-Golgi vesicle accumulation in late secretion mutants, indicating that Cbk1 also functions upstream of Sec2-Sec4, perhaps at the level of the Golgi. In agreement, conditional cbk1 mutants mislocalize the cis-Golgi mannosyltransferase Och1, are hypersensitive to the aminoglycoside hygromycin B, and exhibit diminished invertase and Sim1 glycosylation. Significantly, the conditional lethality and hygromycin B sensitivity of cbk1 mutants are suppressed by moderate overexpression of several Golgi mannosyltransferases. These data suggest that an important function for Cbk1 and the RAM signaling network is to regulate growth and secretion via Golgi and Sec2/Sec4-dependent processes. 
10564003	19991124	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Production of substrate for galactose oxidase by depolymerization of an arabinogalactan-peptide from wheat flour.	Water extractable arabinogalactan-peptide (WE-AGP) isolated from white wheat flour was depolymerized enzymatically to liberate substrate for a galactose oxidase from Dactylium dendroides. A crude liquid pectolytic preparation from Aspergillus niger (p70) displayed activities capable of converting WE-AGP into a substrate for galactose oxidase. The most favorable substrate was observed when WE-AGP was not fully depolymerized into galactose and arabinose. alpha-L-Arabinofuranosidase B from A. niger was also able to produce substrate from WE-AGP; arabinofuranosidase-treated WE-AGP was a better substrate for galactose oxidase than galactose. Treatment by the crude p70 and purified enzymes showed that alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase was partly responsible for the production of substrate, whereas beta-galactosidase did not result in any substrate production or improve the effect of alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase. However, the positive effect of alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase was increased when p70 was added at the same level of arabinofuranosidase activity, suggesting that additional enzyme activities present in p70 were responsible for production of substrate for galactose oxidase. 
10455486	19990824	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Engineering endoglucanase-secreting strains of ethanologenic Klebsiella oxytoca P2.	Recombinant Klebsiella oxytoca P2 was developed as a biocatalyst for the simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) of cellulose by chromosomally integrating Zymomonas mobilis genes (pdc, adhB) encoding the ethanol pathway. This strain contains the native ability to transport and metabolize cellobiose, eliminating the need to supplement with beta-glucosidase during SSF. To increase the utility of this biocatalyst, we have now chromosomally integrated the celZ gene encoding the primary endoglucanase from Erwinia chrysanthemi. This gene was expressed at high levels by replacing the native promoter with a surrogate promoter derived from Z. mobilis DNA. With the addition of out genes encoding the type II protein secretion system from E. chrysanthemi, over half of the active endoglucanase (EGZ) was secreted into the extracellular environment. The two most active strains, SZ2(pCPP2006) and SZ6(pCPP2006), produced approximately 24 000 IU L-1 of CMCase activity, equivalent to 5% of total cellular protein. Recombinant EGZ partially depolymerized acid-swollen cellulose and allowed the production of small amounts of ethanol by SZ6(pCPP2006) without the addition of fungal cellulase. However, additional endoglucanase activities will be required to complete the depolymerization of cellulose into small soluble products which can be efficiently metabolized to ethanol. 
18178432	20080108	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Hydrolysis and fermentation of brewer's spent grain by Neurospora crassa.	In this study, the ethanol production by the mesophilic fungus Neurospora crassa from BG was studied and optimized concerning the induction of lignocellulose degrading enzymes and the production phase as well. The production of cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic enzymes was studied under solid-state cultivation (SSC). SSC in a laboratory horizontal bioreactor using the optimized medium, WS and BG in the ratio 1:1 and initial moisture level 61.5%, allowed the large scale production of the multienzymatic system. Similar yields with those from flasks experiments, as high as 1073,56,4.2,1.6,3.1,5.7 and 0.52 U g(-1) carbon source of xylanase, endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, beta-glucosidase, alpha-l-arabinofuranosidase, acetyl esterase and feruloyl esterase, respectively, were obtained. Chromogenic (fluorogenic) 4-methylumbelliferyl substrates were used to characterize the major activities of the multienzyme component, after the separation by isoelectric focusing (IEF) electrophoresis. Alkali pre-treated BG was used for ethanol production. A yield of about 74 g of ethanol kg(-1) dry BG (5,6 g L(-1)) was obtained under optimum conditions (aeration 0.1 vvm, pre-treatment with 1g NaOH 10 g(-1)dry BG). 
12883865	20030729	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 	cDNA cloning and functional expression of alpha-glucosidase from Mortierella alliacea.	We recently purified an alpha-glucosidase comprising 61-kDa and 31-kDa subunits from the fungus Mortierella alliacea and characterized its soluble starch-hydrolyzing activity. Here, the cDNA coding for this enzyme was cloned, revealing that it encodes a single polypeptide of 1,053 amino acids, with a calculated molecular mass of 117 kDa. Comparison between the deduced amino acid sequence and the partial sequences of the purified enzyme suggested that an immature protein can be converted into the two subunits of mature enzyme by post-translational processing at least three cleavage sites. Heterologous expression of recombinant alpha-glucosidase in yeast gave rise to a significant increase in hydrolytic activity toward maltose and soluble starch, in both intracellular and extracellular fractions. Immunoblot analysis using antiserum against the alpha-glucosidase revealed that the active enzyme expressed in yeast is also composed of two subunits. The yeast expression system provides a model suitable for investigating the polypeptide-processing event and structure-function relationship of the alpha-glucosidase with unique substrate specificity. 
15927931	20050602	Asia_Pac_J_Clin_Nutr	D016428 	Anti-diabetic and anti-hypertensive potential of sprouted and solid-state bioprocessed soybean.	Long-term type 2 diabetes can lead to numerous biological complications, such as hypertension and cardio-vascular disease. Key enzymes involved in the enzymatic breakdown of complex carbohydrates,pancreatic alpha-amylase and intestinal alpha-glucosidase, have been targeted as potential avenues for modulation of type 2 diabetes-associated post-prandial hyperglycemia through mild inhibition of their enzymatic activities so as to decrease meal-derived glucose absorption. Further, inhibition of hypertension-linked angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) was targeted as a potential approach for modulation of diabetes-linked hypertension. Water-soluble extracts of soybean optimized for phenolic content via sprouting or bioprocessing by dietary fungus (Rhizopus oligosporus, Lentinus edodes) were investigated for inhibitory activity against porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase (PPA), yeast alpha-glucosidase, and rabbit lung ACE in vitro. PPA was allowed to react with each phenolic-optimized extract and the derivatized enzyme-phytochemical mixtures obtained were characterized for residual amylase activity. Alpha-glucosidase and ACE activities were determined in the presence of each phenolic-optimized extract. All of the soybean extracts possessed marked anti-amylase activity, with extracts of R. oligosporus-bioprocessed soybean having the strongest inhibitory activity, but only slight anti-glucosidase activity. The anti-amylase activity of each extract seemed associated with extract antioxidant activity. Anti-enzyme activity was slightly associated with total soluble phenolic content per se, but seemed more associated to the length of sprouting or bioprocessing of the soybean substrate. Short-term sprouting or bioprocessing seemed to improve anti-amylase activity, while long-term sprouting or bioprocessing seemed to aid anti-glucosidase activity. While ACE activity was strongly inhibited by all of the soybean extracts (44-97%), only sprouting was found to increase this inhibition and bioprocessing of soybean with L. edodes decreased inhibitory activity of soybean extract. The results suggest that sprouting and dietary fungal bioprocessing of soybean improve the anti-diabetic potential of soybean extracts, potentially through modulation of the phenolic profile of the extract, and further suggest that enzyme inhibitory activity may be linked to phenolic antioxidant mobilization during spouting and/ or bioprocessing. The significance of food-grade, plant-based enzyme inhibitors for modulation of carbohydrate breakdown and control of glycemic index of foods in the context of preventing hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus complications such as hypertension in the long-term is hypothesized and discussed. 
16820757	20060706	J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	A specific short dextrin-hydrolyzing extracellular glucosidase from the thermophilic fungus Thermoascus aurantiacus 179-5.	The thermophilic fungus Thermoascus aurantiacus 179-5 produced large quantities of a glucosidase which preferentially hydrolyzed maltose over starch. Enzyme production was high in submerged fermentation, with a maximal activity of 30 U/ml after 336 h of fermentation. In solid-state fermentation, the activity of the enzyme was 22 U/ml at 144 h in medium containing wheat bran and 5.8 U/ml at 48 h when cassava pulp was used as the culture medium. The enzyme was specific for maltose, very slowly hydrolyzed starch, dextrins (2-7G) and the synthetic substrate (alpha-PNPG), and did not hydrolyze sucrose. These properties suggest that the enzyme is a type II alpha-glucosidase. The optimum temperature of the enzyme was 70 degrees . In addition, the enzyme was highly thermostable (100% stability for 10 h at 60 degrees and a half-life of 15 min at 80 degrees), and stable within a wide pH range. 
19151184	20090120	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and identification of cellulose-binding proteins from sheep rumen contents.	To extend our understanding of the mechanisms of plant cell wall degradation in the rumen, cellulose-binding proteins (CBPs) from the contents of a sheep rumen were directly isolated and identified using a metaproteomics approach. The rumen CBPs were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and some CBPs revealed endoglucanase activities toward carboxymethyl cellulose. Using mass spectrometry analyses, four CBPs were identified and annotated as known proteins from the predominant rumen cellulolytic bacterium Fibrobacter succinogenes: tetratricopeptide repeat domain protein, OmpA family protein, fibro-slime domain protein, and cellulose-binding endoglucanase F (EGF). Another CBP was identified as the cellulosomal glycosyl hydrolase family 6 exoglucanase, Cel6A, of Piromyces equi. F. succinogenes cells expressing EGF were found to be major members of the bacterial community on the surface or at the inner surface of hay stems by immunohistochemical analyses using anti-EGF antibody. The finding that four of the five CBPs isolated and identified from sheep rumen contents were from F. succinogenes indicates that F. succinogenes is significantly involved in cellulose degradation in the rumen. 
17168295	20061216	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Synthesis of xylanolytic enzymes and other carbohydrases by the fungus Penicillium canescens: transformants with an altered copy number of the gene xlnR and an encoding transcriptional activator].	A fragment of Penicillium canescens genomic DNA carrying the xlnR gene coding for a translational activator of xylanolytic genes was isolated. It was demonstrated that a loss of this function in genetically modified transformants resulted in a drastic decrease in the production of P. canescens major xylanases and had a negative effect on the syntheses of several other extracellular xylanases. An increase in the dose of the xlnR gene elevated the xylanolytic activity as well as the activities of a number of other auxiliary enzymes involved in xylan degradation. The activities of two P. canescens major secreted enzymes--beta-galactosidase and alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase-appeared weakly dependent on the translational activator xlnR. 
17933563	20071016	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Characterization of the endo-beta-1,3-glucanase activity of S. cerevisiae Eng2 and other members of the GH81 family.	The GH81 family includes proteins with endo-beta-1,3-glucanase widely distributed in yeast and fungi, which are also present in plants and bacteria. We have studied the activity of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae ScEng2 and the Schizosaccharomyces pombe SpEng1 and SpEng2 proteins. All three proteins exclusively hydrolyzed linear beta-1,3-glucan chains. Laminari-oligosaccharide degradation revealed that the minimum substrate length that the three endoglucanases were able to efficiently degrade was a molecule with at least 5 glucose residues, suggesting that the active site of the enzymes recognized five glucose units. Prediction of the secondary structure of ScEng2 and comparison with proteins of known structure allowed the identification of a 404-amino acid region with a structure similar to the Clostridium thermocellum endoglucanase CelA. This fragment showed similar enzymatic characteristics to those of the complete protein, suggesting that it contains the catalytic domain of this family of proteins. Within this domain, four conserved Asp and Glu residues (D518, D588, E609, and E613) are necessary for enzymatic activity. 
19938483	20091127	Sheng_Wu_Gong_Cheng_Xue_Bao	D016428 	Expression and characterization of a xylosidase (Bxyl) from Bacillus halodurans C-125.	A xylosidase gene, labeled as BH1068 in genome of Bacillus halodurans C-125, was successfully cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli JM109. The purified enzyme was thoroughly characterized and its xylosidase function was unambiguously confirmed. It has maximum activities in neutral condition and is stable over a wide range of pH (4.5-9.0). The enzyme has a broad temperature optimal (35 degrees C-45 degrees C) and is quite stable at temperature up to 45 degrees C. The unique pH and temperature profiles of the enzyme should allow a wide range of xylanolytic operational conditions. With high specific activity of 174 mU/mg protein for its artificial substrate (p-nitrophenyl-beta-xylose) and low xylose inhibition (inhibitor constant Ki = 300 mmol/L), this enzyme is among the most active and high tolerant bacterial xylosidase to xylose inhibition. Its high synergy with commercial xylanase has been demonstrated with beechwood xylan hydrolysis, achieving a hydrolysis yield of 40%. Its neutral pH optimal and high tolerance to product inhibition complements well with its fungal counterparts that are only optimal at acidic pH and susceptible to xylose inhibition. In conclusion, this enzyme has high potential in the saccharification of xylan and xylan-containing polysaccharides. 
2117065	19900101	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 	Mapping of the glucoamylase gene of Trichosporon adeninovorans by mitotic haploidization using hybrids from protoplast fusions.	In two strains of Trichosporon adeninovorans genes of unknown location were assigned to linkage groups. Diploid strains were produced by protoplast fusion and partially haploidized by growth on benomyl causing mitotic haploidization. We show that both strains synthesize an extracellular glucoamylase with different properties. These differences could be used to map the corresponding gene in the segregants. We could map the glucoamylase gene from one of these yeast strains on linkage group II, one of the three linkage groups identified so far. 
7727348	19941201	Int._J._Biol._Macromol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic synthesis of trisaccharides and alkyl beta-D-glucosides by the transglycosylation reaction of beta-glucosidase from Fusarium oxysporum.	Purified beta-glucosidase from Fusarium oxysporum catalyses hydrolysis and transglycosylation reactions. By utilizing the transglycosylation reaction, trisaccharides and alkyl beta-D-glucosides were synthesized under optimal conditions in the presence of various disaccharides and alcohols. The yields of trisaccharides and alkyl beta-D-glucosides were 22-37% and 10-33% of the total sugar, respectively. The enzyme retained 70-80% of its original activity in the presence of 25% (w/v) methanol, ethanol and propanol. Thus, beta-glucosidase from F. oxysporum appears to be an ideal enzyme for the synthesis of useful trisaccharides and alkyl beta-D-glucosides. 
16658959	19741101	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	The function of the carbohydrate units of three fungal enzymes in their resistance to dehydration.	Glucose oxidase (from Aspergillus niger), glucoamylase (from Rhizopus spp.), and cellulase (from Aspergillus niger) of fungal origin are all glycosylated proteins. Dehydration of the three enzymes to a range of water potentials did not affect their activity. However, when more than 10% of the carbohydrate associated with the molecules was removed by periodate oxidation, the enzymes were highly susceptible to dehydration when compared with oxidized controls. Polyvinyl pyrrolidone and Dextran T500 protected the three enzymes in their oxidized state against the effects of dehydration.The carbohydrate units of the enzymes have a function in protecting the enzymes from dehydration and this may be a contributing factor to the survival of microorganisms in environments of low water potentials. The involvement of water associated with the enzyme molecules due to the presence of carbohydrate units is considered to be the protecting mechanism. 
15236928	20040709	Dev._Comp._Immunol.	D016428 D013485 	A putative double role of a chitinase in a cnidarian: pattern formation and immunity.	Chitinases are enzymes that degrade chitin, the second most abundant polymer in nature. They are ubiquitous among living organisms where they play a role in development, food-digestion and innate immunity. We have cloned and characterized the first cnidarian chitinase cDNA from the hydroid Hydractinia. The Hydractinia chitinase exhibits a typical secreted family 18 hydrolases primary structure. In situ hybridization and RT-PCR experiments showed that it is exclusively expressed in ectodermal tissues of the animal, only following metamorphosis while undetectable in embryonic and larval stages. Most prominent expression was observed in the stolonal compartment of colonies, structures that are covered by a chitinous periderm. Chitinase mRNA was detected in new branching points along stolons and in hyperplastic stolons indicating a role of the enzyme in pattern formation and allorecognition. It was also expressed in polyps where it was mostly restricted to their basal portion. This expression pattern suggests that HyChit1 also fulfills a role in host defense, probably against fungal and nematode pathogens. Endodermal expression of HyChit1 has never been observed, suggesting that the enzyme does not participate in food-digestion. 
22678824	20120609	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production and characterization of extracellular α-amylase produced by Wickerhamia sp. X-Fep.	A yeast isolate able to produce high levels of extracellular α-amylase was selected from a collection of 385 yeasts and identified as Wickerhamia sp. by the sequence of the D1/D2 domain of the 26 S rDNA gene. Part of the nucleotide sequence of the amy1-W gene was cloned, and a sequence of 191 amino acids deduced from this gene was analyzed. The peptide contains three characteristic well-conserved regions in the active sites of α-amylases (EC 3.2.1.1). The enzyme was purified and in situ activity showed only one band with amylolytic activity. The molecular mass of the α-amylase was estimated at 54 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Enzymatic activity on soluble starch as substrate was optimal at pH 5-6 and 50 °C. This thermostable enzyme was inhibited by EDTA-Na(2) and 1,10-phenanthroline; the activity of the dialyzed enzyme was reactivated with Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) cations, which indicates that the α-amylase is a metalloenzyme. α-Amylase production was induced by starch and maltose and repressed by glucose. The high yield and productivity found in this work makes this Wickerhamia sp. strain a promising candidate for the biotechnological production of α-amylase. 
11692674	20011106	Mikrobiol._Z.	D004740 D016428 	[Optimization of culture conditions of Aspergillus niger for the synthesis of alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase and alpha-galactosidase].	Different factors have been investigated for their effect on the process of biosynthesis of alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase and alpha-galactosidase of Aspergillus niger under deep-water cultivation. Optimal sources and concentrations of carbon (soy flour--25 g/l) and nitrogen (pepton--7.5 g/l) were estimated. It has been established that temperature of 25 degrees C, pH 6.0, growing in 50 ml medium at the swing velocity 220 rev/min. for 6-8 days are optimal cultivation parameters. It has been shown that dry borine blood (in concentration of 1%) and a number of guanidine derivatives (guanidine carbonate--0.25%, nitroaminoguanison dimethylaminobenzaldehyde--0.05%, nitroaminoguanison of salicylic aldehyde--0.1%) can play the part of inducers of the mentioned glycosidase synthesis. When growing fungal culture in selected conditions synthesis of enzymes increased almost 3 times. Activity of alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase was 0.46 E/ml, and alpha-galactosidase--1.9 E/ml. 
22521132	20120424	Phytochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Ginsenosidases and the pathogenicity of Pythium irregulare.	American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L.) produces triterpenoid saponins, ginsenosides, that possess mild fungitoxic activity toward some common ginseng leaf pathogens. However, numerous oomycete root pathogens of ginseng, most notably Pythium irregulare Buisman, are able to partially deglycosylate 20 (S)-protopanaxadiol ginsenosides Rb1, Rd and gypenoside XVII via extracellular glycosidases, leading to a common product, ginsenoside F2. Conversion of the common 20 (S)-protopanaxadiols into F2 requires both β (1→6) and β (1→2) glucosidase activity. In the present study, the ability of nine distinct isolates of P. irregulare, as well as a P. ultimum Trow isolate and two isolates of Trichoderma hamatum (Bonord.) Bainier, to deglycosylate 20 (S)-protopanaxadiols, in vitro was examined. The pathogenicity of each isolate was also examined by scoring the severity of disease symptoms caused by each in separate inoculations of one- and two-year old ginseng seedlings. Disease severity was scored using a disease severity index, as well as by taking F(v)/F(m) measurements of leaves during a 14-day infection period. Based on these measurements, it was concluded that (1) the use of direct F(v)/F(m) measurements correlates strongly with observations of disease severity (R(2)=0.79), and that (2) the pathogenicity of P. irregulare isolates correlates with their ability to deglycosylate ginsenosides (R(2)=0.57). These results further support the hypothesis that the pathogenicity of P. irregulare on ginseng roots is dependent, in part, on the ability of this organism to deglycosylate ginsenosides. 
9385443	19980207	Biochem._Mol._Biol._Int.	D016428 	Cloning and characterization of a rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase gene from Botrytis cinerea.	Rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase (Rgase A) cleaves alpha 1--2 linkages between rhamnosyl and galacturonosyl residues in pectin. A 1.9 kb RGase A cDNA clone (BCRHGA) was isolated from a B. cinerea cDNA library using a PCR-amplified Aspergillus aculeatus RGase A probe. It's 1.7 kb open reading frame had 62% identity at the amino acid level with A. aculeatus RGase A. Northern blots of B. cinerea total RNA probed with BCRHGA revealed a 2 kb band, suggesting the cDNA clone is full or nearly-full length. To determine mRNA expression of the gene, B. cinerea was grown in media containing 0.5% apple pectin, 0.5% rhamnogalacturonan-I and 1% glucose carbon sources. Northern analysis revealed the BCRHGA gene was expressed on all carbon sources, but with different patterns of expression. B. cinerea RGase A appeared to be coded for by a single or low copy number gene based on Southern analysis. 
10898858	20000718	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase Cel7A secreted from Pichia pastoris using two different promoters.	Heterologous expression of T. reesei cellobiohydrolase Cel7A in a methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris was tested both under the P. pastoris alcohol oxidase (AOX1) promoter and the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAP) promoter in a fermentor. Production of Cel7A with the AOX1 promoter gave a better yield, although part of the enzyme expressed was apparently not correctly folded. Cel7A expressed in P. pastoris is overglycosylated at its N-glycosylation sites as compared to the native T. reesei protein, but less extensive than Cel7A expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The k(cat) and K(m) values for the purified protein on soluble substrates are similar to the values found for the native Trichoderma Cel7A, whereas the degradation rate on crystalline substrate (BMCC) is somewhat reduced. The measured pH optimum also closely resembles that of purified T. reesei Cel7A. Furthermore, the hyperglycosylation does not affect the thermostability of the enzyme monitored with tryptophane fluorescence and activity measurements. On the other hand, CD measurements indicate that the formation of disulfide bridges is an important step in the correct folding of Cel7A and might explain the difficulties encountered in heterologous expression of T. reesei Cel7A. The constitutive GAP promoter expression system of P. pastoris is nevertheless well suited for activity screening of cellulase activities in microtiter plates. With this type of screening method a faster selection of site-directed and random mutants with, for instance, an altered optimum pH is possible, in contrast to the homologous T. reesei expression system. 
23338752	20130123	Anal_Bioanal_Chem	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Offline and online capillary electrophoresis enzyme assays of β-N-acetylhexosaminidase.	Enzyme assays of β-N-acetylhexosaminidase from Aspergillus oryzae using capillary electrophoresis in the offline and online setup have been developed. The pH value and concentration of the borate-based background electrolyte were optimized in order to achieve baseline separation of N,N',N″-triacetylchitotriose, N,N'-diacetylchitobiose, and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine. The optimized method using 25 mM tetraborate buffer, pH 10.0, was evaluated in terms of repeatability, limits of detection, quantification, and linearity. The method was successfully applied to the offline enzyme assay of β-N-acetylhexosaminidase, which was demonstrated by monitoring the hydrolysis of N,N',N″-triacetylchitotriose. The presented method was also utilized to study the pH dependence of enzyme activity. An online assay with N,N'-diacetylchitobiose as a substrate was developed using the Transverse Diffusion of Laminar Flow Profiles model to optimize the injection sequence and in-capillary mixing of substrate and enzyme plugs. The experimental results were in good agreement with predictions of the model. The online assay was successfully used to observe the inhibition effect of N,N'-dimethylformamide on the activity of β-N-acetylhexosaminidase with nanoliter volumes of reagents used per run and a high degree of automation. After adjustment of background electrolyte pH, an online assay with N,N',N″-triacetylchitotriose as a substrate was also performed. 
18671744	20080802	FEMS_Microbiol._Ecol.	D016428 	Identification and characterization of genes underlying chitinolysis in Collimonas fungivorans Ter331.	Through a combinatorial approach of plasposon mutagenesis, genome mining, and heterologous expression, we identified genes contributing to the chitinolytic phenotype of bacterium Collimonas fungivorans Ter331. One of five mutants with abolished ability to hydrolyze colloidal chitin carried its plasposon in the chiI gene coding for an extracellular endochitinase. Two mutants were affected in the promoter of chiP-II coding for an outer-membrane transporter of chitooligosaccharides. The remaining two mutations were linked to chitobiose/N-acetylglucosamine uptake. Thus, our model for the Collimonas chitinolytic system assumes a positive feedback regulation of chitinase activity by chitin degradation products. A second chitinase gene, chiII, coded for an exochitinase that preferentially released chitobiose from chitin analogs. Genes hexI and hexII showed coding resemblance to N-acetylglucosaminidases, and the activity of purified HexI protein towards chitin analogs suggested its role in converting chitobiose to N-acetylglucosamine. The hexI gene clustered with chiI, chiII, and chiP-II in one locus, while chitobiose/N-acetylglucosamine uptake genes colocalized in another. Both loci contained genes for conversion of N-acetylglucosamine to fructose-6-phosphate, confirming that C. fungivorans Ter331 features a complete chitin pathway. No link could be established between chitinolysis and antifungal activity of C. fungivorans Ter331, suggesting that the bacterium's reported antagonism towards fungi relies on other mechanisms. 
20378340	20100410	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Improvement in fruiting body yield by introduction of the Ampullaria crossean multi-functional cellulase gene into Volvariella volvacea.	The multi-functional cellulase gene, mfc, from Ampullaria crossean was transformed into Volvariella volvacea by PEG-mediated protoplast transformation to improve the biological efficiency and fruiting body yield. PCR and Southern blotting indicated that mfc was integrated into the genomes of four transformants. In laboratory and large scale cultivation experiments, the average biological efficiency of the transformants was 18.39+/-1.27% and 27.84+/-3.21%, respectively, considerably higher than the corresponding values for untransformed controls of 12.69+/-1.31% and 20.63+/-2.59%. This is the first report of an improvement in biological efficiency and fruiting body yield of V. volvacea through transgenesis. 
24198670	20131108	Mycobiology	D016428 	Production and Characterization of a New α-Glucosidase Inhibitory Peptide from Aspergillus oryzae N159-1.	An α-glucosidase inhibitor was developed from Aspergillus oryzae N159-1, which was screened from traditional fermented Korean foods. The intracellular concentration of the inhibitor reached its highest level when the fungus was cultured in tryptic soy broth medium at 27℃ for five days. The inhibitor was purified using a series of purification steps involving ultrafiltration, Sephadex G-25 gel permeation chromatography, strong cation exchange solid phase extraction, reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography, and size exclusion chromatography. The final yield of the purification was 1.9%. Results of the liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis indicated that the purified α-glucosidase inhibitor was a tri-peptide, Pro-Phe-Pro, with the molecular weight of 360.1 Da. The IC50 value of the peptide against α-glucosidase activity was 3.1 mg/mL. Using Lineweaver-Burk plot analysis, the inhibition pattern indicated that the inhibitor acts as a mixed type inhibitor.  
17320363	20070227	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Biocontrol and other beneficial activities of Bacillus subtilis isolated from cowdung microflora.	Bacillus subtilis strains isolated from cowdung (CD) had several beneficial attributes, which included biocontrol, plant growth promotion, sulphur (S) oxidation, phosphorus (P) solubilization and production of industrially important enzymes (amylase and cellulase). The B. subtilis strains from CD inhibited the in vitro growth of fungi, Fusarium oxysporum (25-34%) and Botryodiplodia theobromae (100%), isolated from the postharvest rots of yam (Dioscorea rotundata) tubers. Other than biocontrol, B. subtilis strains were able to promote root elongation in seedlings of Cicer arietinum up to 70-74% as compared to untreated seeds (control). B. subtilis strains had also the ability to oxidize elemental S to sulphate (2-15microgml(-1)) and showed distinct P-solubilization activity in vitro. In addition, the cultures showed cellulase activity in carboxy methyl cellulose medium (1.5-1.8mg of reducing sugar24h(-1)ml(-1)) and amylase activity in vitro. 
9854811	19981217	Comp._Biochem._Physiol._B,_Biochem._Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 	Comparative studies of suidatrestin, a specific inhibitor of trehalases.	Suidatrestin, isolated from a Streptomyces strain, was characterized as a new trehalase inhibitor. Its inhibitory potential was 7 to 50-fold higher than that of validamycin when tested against insect, fungal and mammalian trehalases. The kinetic properties of suidatrestin were studied in vitro with trehalases from flight muscle mitochondria of the fly, Protophormia terraenovae, from larval midgut of the moth, Spodoptera littoralis, and from porcine kidney, as well as with maltase from yeast. Suidatrestin was inactive on maltase but inhibited all trehalases with IC50 values of 0.08-0.1 microM; Ki values ranged from 0.02 to 0.05 microM. The very low Ki/K(m) ratios (3.9 x 10(-6) -4.9 x 10(-6)) indicated excellent in vitro inhibitory action of suidatrestin. When injected into larvae of S. littoralis, suidatrestin required high and repetitive doses which lead to reversible inhibition of larval growth only. Consecutive omission of the inhibitor even stimulated weight increase above that of controls. Significant mortality was achieved at a rather high dose only. Injection of a growth-inhibiting dose of suidatrestin did not change hemolymph osmolality as a measure of sugar concentration. The discrepancy between in vitro and in vivo potency of suidatrestin may be understood once its chemical structure is fully known. 
2515216	19891001	J._Biochem._Biophys._Methods	D016428 	M(III)-facilitated recovery and concentration of enzymes from mesophilic and thermophilic organisms.	Six enzymes isolated from organisms of widely differing thermal growth optima were flocculated from solution at constant pH by addition of Fe(III) solution. In all cases the enzyme concentration was 1 g.l-1 or less. Flocculation profiles were generated for each enzyme over a range of Fe(III) levels. The concentrated enzymes were recovered from the Fe(III)/protein complex by solubilisation with citrate and dithionite followed by precipitation with ammonium sulphate. In all cases approximately 70-80% enzyme recovery was achieved. Enzyme thermal stability did not appear to be important and protein concentration had no effect on the efficiency of enzyme recovery over the range of 0.01-1 g.l-1. Approximately 30 mmol Fe(III)/l of enzyme solution facilitated optimal enzyme recovery for all solutions studied. For protein concentrations up to 1 g.l-1 a 100-fold enzyme concentration factor can be expected. 
22405828	20120313	Biochem._Biophys._Res._Commun.	D016428 D013485 	Increases thermal stability and cellulose-binding capacity of Cryptococcus sp. S-2 lipase by fusion of cellulose binding domain derived from Trichoderma reesei.	To improve the thermal stability and cellulose-binding capacity of Cryptococcus sp. S-2 lipase (CSLP), the cellulose-binding domain originates from Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I was engineered into C-terminal region of the CSLP (CSLP-CBD). The CSLP and CSLP-CBD were successfully expressed in the Pichia pastoris using the strong methanol inducible alcohol oxidase 1 (AOX1) promoter and the secretion signal sequence from Saccharomyces cerevisiae (α factor). The recombinant CSLP and CSLP-CBD were secreted into culture medium and estimated by SDS-PAGE to be 22 and 27 kDa, respectively. The fusion enzyme was stable at 80 °C and retained more than 80% of its activity after 120-min incubation at this temperature. Our results also found that the fusion of fungal exoglucanase cellulose-binding domain to CSLP is responsible for cellulose-binding capacity. This attribute should make it an attractive applicant for enzyme immobilization. 
7744023	19950401	Eur._J._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Binding and substrate specificities of a Streptomyces olivaceoviridis chitinase in comparison with its proteolytically processed form.	Streptomyces olivaceoviridis is an efficient chitin degrader. One of its genes encoding an exochitinase (exo-ChiO1) was previously characterized. The transcription was found to be inducible by chitin, but not by glucose. The transcriptional start site is situated 38 bp upstream of the start codon. S. olivaceoviridis as well as transformants of S. vinaceus and S. lividans carrying the exo-chiO1 gene on a multicopy vector secrete a 59-kDa chitinase which adheres strongly and under most conditions irreversibly to the substrate chitin. After having released the enzyme from the crystalline substrate in the presence of high concentrations of guanidine hydrochloride, it was purified to homogeneity by consecutive chitin- and immunoaffinity chromatographies. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that the enzyme specifically binds to crystalline alpha-chitin within fungi and other organisms as well as to beta-chitin, but not to colloidal chitin, chitosan, various types of cellulose, or other polysaccharides. The amino acids deduced from the highly specific binding domain (12 kDa) of this enzyme do not share significant similarity with any known region interacting with chitin or another substrate. During cultivation with chitin, the 59-kDa enzyme is proteolytically processed to a 47-kDa truncated chitinase lacking the chitin-binding domain. The 47-kDa enzyme hydrolyses crystalline chitin considerably less efficiently than the 59-kDa enzyme, whereas colloidal chitin and low-molecular-mass substrates are quite equally degraded by both enzymes at identical optimal pH (7.3) and temperature (45-55 degrees C) values. Thus a strong adhesion of the enzyme to its crystalline substrate via its binding domain is a prerequisite for efficient hydrolysis. 
22766843	20120707	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013486 	Observing and modeling BMCC degradation by commercial cellulase cocktails with fluorescently labeled Trichoderma reseii Cel7A through confocal microscopy.	Understanding the depolymerization mechanisms of cellulosic substrates by cellulase cocktails is a critical step towards optimizing the production of monosaccharides from biomass. The Spezyme CP cellulase cocktail combined with the Novo 188 β-glucosidase blend was used to depolymerize bacterial microcrystalline cellulose (BMCC), which was immobilized on a glass surface. The enzyme mixture was supplemented with a small fraction of fluorescently labeled Trichoderma reseii Cel7A, which served as a reporter to track cellulase binding onto the physical structure of the cellulosic substrate. Both micro-scale imaging and bulk experiments were conducted. All reported experiments were conducted at 50 °C, the optimal temperature for maximum hydrolytic activity of the enzyme cocktail. BMCC structure was observed throughout degradation by labeling it with a fluorescent dye. This method allowed us to measure the binding of cellulases in situ and follow the temporal morphological changes of cellulose during its depolymerization by a commercial cellulase mixture. Three kinetic models were developed and fitted to fluorescence intensity data obtained through confocal microscopy: irreversible and reversible binding models, and an instantaneous binding model. The models were successfully used to predict the soluble sugar concentrations that were liberated from BMCC in bulk experiments. Comparing binding and kinetic parameters from models with different assumptions to previously reported constants in the literature led us to conclude that exposing new binding sites is an important rate-limiting step in the hydrolysis of crystalline cellulose. 
19418231	20090507	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Differential responses of rice to inoculation with wild-type and non-pathogenic mutants of Magnaporthe oryzae.	We analyzed the response of rice to Magnaporthe oryzae infection using two mutant strains deficient in Mgb1 and Mst12, which are essential for the development of appresoria and penetration pegs. Both mutants induced the much lower levels of accumulation of phytoalexins than wild-type, suggesting that the massive production of phytoalexins requires the fungal invasion of rice cells. Intense accumulation of H2O2 in a single whole cell also required fungal penetration. Microarray analysis of rice gene expression revealed mutant-specific gene expression, indicating that signal exchange between rice and M. oryzae commence before fungal penetration of the rice cell. In situ detection of mRNAs for peroxidase and beta-1,3-glucanase showed that expression of these genes also occurs after penetration as observed for phytoalexin production. 
24197466	20131108	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a marine-derived dextranase and its application to the prevention of dental caries.	The dextranase added in current commercial dextranase-containing mouthwashes is largely from fungi. However, fungal dextranase has shown much higher optimum temperature than bacterial dextranase and relatively low activity when used in human oral cavities. Bacterial dextranase has been considered to be more effective and suitable for dental caries prevention. In this study, a dextranase (Dex410) from marine Arthrobacter sp. was purified and characterized. Dex410 is a 64-kDa endoglycosidase. The specific activity of Dex410 was 11.9 U/mg at optimum pH 5.5 and 45 °C. The main end-product of Dex410 was isomaltotriose, isomaltoteraose, and isomaltopentaose by hydrolyzing dextran T2000. In vitro studies showed that Dex410 effectively inhibited the Streptococcus mutans biofilm growth in coverage, biomass, and water-soluble glucan (WSG) by more than 80, 90, and 95 %, respectively. The animal experiment revealed that for short-term use (1.5 months), both Dex410 and the commercial mouthwash Biotene (Laclede Professional Products, Gardena, CA, USA) had a significant inhibitory effect on caries (p = 0.0008 and 0.0001, respectively), while for long-term use (3 months), only Dex410 showed significant inhibitory effect on dental caries (p = 0.005). The dextranase Dex410 from a marine-derived Arthrobacter sp. strain possessed the enzyme properties suitable to human oral environment and applicable to oral hygiene products.  
9757128	19981003	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction studies of the heterogeneously glycosylated enzyme rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase from Aspergillus aculeatus.	Well diffracting crystals of rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase from Aspergillus aculeatus have been obtained in two polymorphic modifications despite its heterogeneous glycosylation. The best-diffracting crystals (resolution 1.55 A) are orthorhombic. The limit of the diffraction pattern of the other (trigonal) form is 2.5 A. The ability of the enzyme to crystallize appears to depend on the glycosylation of the protein sample. This aspect has been investigated by mass spectrometry, which also showed that the orthorhombic crystals have the same glycosylation as the protein sample used in the crystallization. 
22744980	20120630	Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	Blue native-PAGE analysis of Trichoderma harzianum secretome reveals cellulases and hemicellulases working as multienzymatic complexes.	Plant cell wall-degrading enzymes produced by microorganisms possess important biotechnological applications, including biofuel production. Some anaerobic bacteria are able to produce multienzymatic complexes called cellulosomes while filamentous fungi normally secrete individual hydrolytic enzymes that act synergistically for polysaccharide degradation. Here, we present evidence that the fungus Trichoderma harzianum, cultivated in medium containing the agricultural residue sugarcane bagasse, is able to secrete multienzymatic complexes. The T. harzianum secretome was firstly analyzed by 1D-BN (blue native)-PAGE that revealed several putative complexes. The three most intense 1D-BN-PAGE bands, named complexes [I], [II], and [III], were subsequently subjected to tricine SDS-PAGE that demonstrated that they were composed of smaller subunits. Zymographic assays were performed using 1D-BN-PAGE and 2D-BN/BN-PAGE demonstrating that the complexes bore cellulolytic and xylanolytic activities. The complexes [I], [II], and [III] were then trypsin digested and analyzed separately by LC-MS/MS that revealed their protein composition. Since T. harzianum has an unsequenced genome, a homology-driven proteomics approach provided a higher number of identified proteins than a conventional peptide-spectrum matching strategy. The results indicate that the complexes are formed by cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic enzymes and other proteins such as chitinase, cutinase, and swollenin, which may act synergistically to degrade plant cell wall components. 
20177887	20100224	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013486 	Assessment of saccharification efficacy in the cellulase system of the brown rot fungus Gloeophyllum trabeum.	Brown rot fungi uniquely degrade wood by creating modifications thought to aid in the selective removal of polysaccharides by an incomplete cellulase suite. This naturally successful mechanism offers potential for current bioprocessing applications. To test the efficacy of brown rot cellulases, southern yellow pine wood blocks were first degraded by the brown rot fungus Gloeophyllum trabeum for 0, 2, 4, and 6 weeks. Characterization of the pine constituents revealed brown rot decay patterns, with selective polysaccharide removal as lignin compositions increased. G. trabeum liquid and solid state cellulase extracts, as well as a commercial Trichoderma reesei extract (Celluclast 1.5 L), were used to saccharify this pretreated material, using beta-glucosidase amendment to remove limitation of cellobiose-to-glucose conversion. Conditions varied according to source and concentration of cellulase extract and to pH (3.0 vs. 4.8). Hydrolysis yields were maximized using solid state G. trabeum extracts at a pH of 4.8. However, the extent of glucose release was low and was not significantly altered when cellulase loading levels were increased threefold. Furthermore, Celluclast 1.5 L continually outperformed G. trabeum cellulase extracts, although extent of glucose release never exceeded 22.0%. Results suggest methodological advances for utilizing crude G. trabeum cellulases and imply that the suboptimal hydrolysis levels obtained with G. trabeum and Celluclast 1.5 L cellulases, even at high loading levels, may be due to brown rot modifications insufficiently distributed throughout the pretreated material. 
7766088	19950301	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	One-step enzymatic hydrolysis of starch using a recombinant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae producing alpha-amylase, glucoamylase and pullulanase.	A recombinant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was constructed that contained the genes encoding a bacterial alpha-amylase (AMY1), a yeast glucoamylase (STA2) and a bacterial pullulanase (pulA). The Bacillus amyloliquefaciens alpha-amylase and S. cerevisiae var. diastaticus glucoamylase genes were expressed in S. cerevisiae using their native promoters and the encoded enzymes secreted under direction of their native leader sequences. In contrast, the Klebsiella pneumoniae pullulanase gene was placed under the control of the yeast alcohol dehydrogenase gene promoter (ADC1P) and secreted using the yeast mating pheromone alpha-factor secretion signal (MF alpha 1S). Transcription termination of the pullulanase gene was effected by the yeast tryptophan synthase gene terminator (TRP5T), whereas termination of the glucoamylase and alpha-amylase genes was directed by their native terminators. Pullulanase (PUL1) produced by recombinant yeasts containing ADC1P MF alpha 1S pulA TRP5T (designated PUL1) was further characterized and compared to its bacterial counterpart (PulA). The different genes were introduced into S. cerevisiae in different combinations and the various amylolytic Saccharomyces transformants compared to Schwanniomyces occidentalis. Introduction of PUL1 into a S. cerevisiae strain containing both STA2 and AMY1, resulted in 99% assimilation of starch. 
20414741	20100424	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Influence of different substrates on the production of a mutant thermostable glucoamylase in submerged fermentation.	Three mutations, Ser54→Pro, Thr314→Ala, and His415→Tyr, were identified in Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase gene expressed by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The mutant glucoamylase (GA) was substantially more thermostable than a wild-type GA at 70 °C, with a 3.0 KJ mol(-1) increase in the free energy of thermo-inactivation. The effect of starch from different botanical sources on the production of this GA was measured in liquid fermentation using commercial soluble starch, cassava, potato, and corn as the carbon source. The best substrate for GA production was the potato starch showing an enzymatic activity of 6.6 U/mL. The commercial soluble starch was also a good substrate for the enzyme production with 6.3 U/mL, followed by cassava starch and corn starch with 5.9 and 3.0 U/mL, respectively. These results showed a significant difference on GA production related to the carbon source employed. The mutant GA was purified by acarbose-Sepharose affinity chromatography; the estimated molecular mass was 100 kDa. The mutant GA exhibited optimum activity at pH 4.5 and an optimum temperature of 65 °C. 
17388645	20070329	Rev_Iberoam_Micol	D003160 D016428 	Extracellular enzymatic activities in Cryptococcus neoformans strains isolated from AIDS patients in different countries.	Three hundred and ten Cryptococcus neoformans strains isolated from AIDS patients in five different countries (151 from Brazil, 23 from Italy, 28 from Spain, 104 from Thailand and four from Turkey) were tested by the API-ZYM kit to detect their extracellular enzymatic activity. The enzymes esterase (C4) (no 3), esterase lipase (C8) (no 4), leucine arylamidase (no 6) and acid phosphatase (no 11) were commonly positive in most of the strains (more than 95%). These enzymes could be considered a useful tool not only for C. neoformans identification, but in particular for their possible relationship to new C. neoformans virulence factors and also for epidemiological research. Interestingly, it is also the high positive percentage of alpha-glucosidase and beta-glucosidase detected in all isolates. The serotype A was the most predominant serotype in all countries, except for Italy where the serotype D was predominant. Further studies are needed to draw a clear correlation between the API-ZYM profile and serotype. 
484118	19790501	Zentralbl_Bakteriol_B	D004740 D016428 	[Rhizospheric organism under the influence of environmental pollution. II. Physiologic efficiency of the microbial biocenosis in fungicide containing soil (author's transl)].	Measuring the potential soil respiration according to the incubator method allows the physiological performance of the celluloytic microflora to be determined. Laboratory tests were carried out to analyse catabolic processes after soil samples had been enriched with native cellulose + fungides. As the temporary capacity of mineralization primarily induced by the substrate invariably gives rise to a substrate-specific "change in position" in the microbial biocenosis, the measured values cannot furnish a parameter for microbiological comparisons of the soil content. Preliminary analyses provided information on the processes of depolymerisation of various C-sources and characterized the celluloysis as well as the order of respiration of its monomer. The rising respiration curve markedly drops off after 12 days, because with the CO2 development at its maximum, total and partial respiration alternate, a phenomenon that was verified in soils incubated with glucose 14C (Keefer and Mortensen, 1963; Macura, 1963; Simonart and Mayaudon, 1958). The test results obtained with fungicide-treated soils (dithiocarbamine acid derivatives) allow the conclusion that the fungicides exercise a varying influence: in the cellulolysis the activity of the cellulase systems is reduced depending on the active substance and concentration, but what is surprising is that respiration is stimulated; this applies to amounts of pesticides being 0.75 and 1.5 times the practical quantity applied. Nor have the "dissociation tests" with cellobiose, which is supposed to be the final link of celluloysis, shown any inhibition of the 1.4--glucodimerase or high respiration values comparable with the glucose metabolism. Tests with cellulases (Cx with dimerase function, Messrs. Roehm and Haas, Darmstadt), which are at present being carried out, are expected to support these observations experimentally. Investigations intended to clarify whether an additional administration of Mn2+ and Fe3+ in the presence of Maneb and Ferbam permits interference with possible adsorption and exchange processes have not yet yielded any generally valid results. The results of the open-field investigations also tend to indicate that the mentioned dithio-carbamates determine the magnitude and the extent of the physiological and CO2-ecological processes to a varying degree; it can be seen that a remarkable "capacity fo compensation" is discernible in the succession of the investigated phases of soil-physiological processes which we tried to clarify. 
8431951	19930201	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of the Trichoderma reesei cbh2 promoter.	A 613-bp fragment of the 5' upstream region of the Trichoderma reesei cbh2 gene (coding for the cellulolytic enzyme cellobiohydrolase II) has been isolated and sequenced. Fusion of this fragment to the E. coli uidA gene (coding for beta-glucuronidase) leads to--albeit low--expression of beta-glucuronidase activity in the presence of cellulose and upon the addition of low molecular weight inducers (sophorose, lactose) of cellobiohydrolase II. It also governed the formation of beta-glucuronidase activity during sporulation and its transport to the conidial surface. However, despite the presence of a signal peptide in the cbh2:uidA fusion, beta-glucuronidase was not secreted in T. reesei. Defined fragments of the 613-bp promoter region were isolated and used to identify areas involved in the regulation of cbh2 expression by protein-DNA binding assays. At least two binding areas--between -443/-363 and -363/-173, respectively--were identified. In both areas, the DNA-protein complex observed was appreciably larger when cell-free extracts from sophorose-induced mycelia were used. This suggests that at least one of the proteins regulating cbh2 transcription is itself induced by cellulose. 
9916160	19990123	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of P33 protein of Candida utilis homologous to bgl2p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae; comparative analysis of the role of these proteins in molecular organization of the yeast cell walls.	P33 protein was isolated from the cell walls of Candida utilis. Homology between P33 and Bgl2p proteins from the cell walls of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was shown. The important role of these proteins in molecular organization of yeast cell walls was demonstrated using trypsin proteolysis and the "gene disruption" method. 
350852	19780601	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013487 	Glycogenolytic enzymes in sporulating yeast.	During meiosis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the polysaccharide glycogen is first synthesized and then degraded during the period of spore maturation. We have detected, in sporulating yeast strains, an enzyme activity which is responsible for the glycogen catabolism. The activity was absent in vegetative cells, appeared coincidently with the beginning of glycogenolysis and the appearance of mature ascospores, and increased progressively until spourlation was complete. The specific activity of glycogenolytic enzymes in the intact ascus was about threefold higher than in isolated spores. The glycogenolysis was not due to combinations of phosphorylase plus phosphatase or amylase plus maltase. Nonsporulating cells exhibited litle or no glycogen catabolism and contained only traces of glycogenolytic enzyme, suggesting that the activity is sporulation specific. The partially purified enzyme preparation degraded amylose and glycogen, releasing glucose as the only low-molecular-weight product. Maltotriose was rapidly hydrolyzed; maltose was less susceptible. Alpha-methyl-D-glucoside, isomaltose, and linear alpha-1,6-linked dextran were not attacked. However, the enzyme hydrolyzed alpha-1,6-glucosyl-Schardinger dextrin and increased the beta-amylolysis of beta-amylase-limit dextrin. Thus, the preparation contains alpha-1,4- and alpha-1,6-glucosidase activities. Sephadex G-150 chromatography partially resolved the enzyme into two activities, one of which may be a glucamylase and the other a debranching enzyme. 
7197252	19810101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 	Cell growth and cellulase production in Trichoderma viride on microcrystalline cellulose.	The production of CM and FP cellulases was studied during the growth of a wild strain of Trichoderma viride on microcrystalline cellulose. Part of the enzymes was found to be released into the medium while another part remained bound to the cell. Bound cellulases are released into the medium at the stage of cell lysis which takes place in the post-stationary phase. In this period extracellular CM and FP cellulases attain maximum activities. When the hyphae are subjected to a cold shock, maximum cellulase activity is detected already at the beginning of the stationary phase. an indirect method of dry cell mass determination showed that during exponential growth of cells on microcrystalline cellulose the mumax was 0.23 and the yield coefficient was 41%. 
19703229	20090826	FEBS_J.	D016428 D013485 	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae vacuolar acid trehalase is targeted at the cell surface for its physiological function.	Previous studies in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae have proposed a vacuolar localization for Ath1, which is difficult to reconcile with its ability to hydrolyze exogenous trehalose. We used fluorescent microscopy to show that the red fluorescent protein mCherry fused to the C-terminus of Ath1, although mostly localized in the vacuole, was also targeted to the cell surface. Also, hybrid Ath1 truncates fused at their C-terminus with the yeast internal invertase revealed that a 131 amino acid N-terminal fragment of Ath1was sufficient to target the fusion protein to the cell surface, enabling growth of the suc2Delta mutant on sucrose. The unique transmembrane domain appeared to be indispensable for the production of a functional Ath1, and its removal abrogated invertase secretion and growth on sucrose. Finally, the physiological significance of the cell-surface localization of Ath1 was established by showing that fusion of the signal peptide of invertase to N-terminal truncated Ath1 allowed the ath1Delta mutant to grow on trehalose, whereas the signal sequence of the vacuolar-targeted Pep4 constrained Ath1 in the vacuole and prevented growth of this mutant on trehalose. Use of trafficking mutants that impaired Ath1 delivery to the vacuole abrogated neither its activity nor its growth on exogenous trehalose. 
23480960	20130314	Microbiol._Res.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Bacterial chitin binding proteins show differential substrate binding and synergy with chitinases.	Glycosyl hydrolase (GH) family 18 chitinases (Chi) and family 33 chitin binding proteins (CBPs) from Bacillus thuringiensis serovar kurstaki (BtChi and BtCBP), B. licheniformis DSM13 (BliChi and BliCBP) and Serratia proteamaculans 568 (SpChiB and SpCBP21) were used to study the efficiency and synergistic action of BtChi, BliChi and SpChiB individually with BtCBP, BliCBP or SpCBP21. Chitinase assay revealed that only BtChi and SpChiB showed synergism in hydrolysis of chitin, while there was no increase in products generated by BliChi, in the presence of the three above mentioned CBPs. This suggests that some (specific) CBPs are able to exert a synergistic effect on (specific) chitinases. A mutant of BliChi, designated as BliGH, was constructed by deleting the C-terminal fibronectin III (FnIII) and carbohydrate binding module 5 (CBM5) to assess the contribution of FnIII and CBM5 domains in the synergistic interactions of GH18 chitinases with CBPs. Chitinase assay with BliGH revealed that the accessory domains play a major role in making BliChi an efficient enzyme. We studied binding of BtCBP and BliCBP to α- and β-chitin. The BtCBP, BliCBP or SpCBP21 did not act synergistically with chitinases in hydrolysis of the chitin, interspersed with other polymers, present in fungal cell walls. 
22112766	20111125	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Carbon source and pH-dependent transcriptional regulation of cellulase genes of Humicola grisea var. thermoidea grown on sugarcane bagasse.	Time-course expression profiles of one xylanase and eight cellulase encoding genes, as well as of two transcription factor encoding genes of Humicola grisea var. thermoidea were established in different culture media pHs and carbon sources (glucose and sugarcane bagasse). Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed a remarkable and parallel increase in mRNA accumulation for cbh1.1, cbh1.2, egl1, egl2, egl3, bgl4 and xyn1 at alkaline pH and with sugarcane bagasse employed as the sole carbon source. Glucose utilization led to a higher creA mRNA accumulation compared to the other genes. A distinct pattern was observed for egl4, whose mRNA preferably accumulated in acidic conditions. The transcriptional profile data combined with the analysis of the in vitro binding of PacC and CreA transcription factors to the promoters support the CreA-mediated carbon repression and the PacC-related pH regulation of H. grisea cellulase and xylanase encoding genes. Moreover, EMSA analyses suggest a role for CreA on pacC transcriptional regulation. These data will be useful to H. grisea hydrolytic enzymes production improvement, as well as to the design of optimized promoters aiming industrial heterologous proteins production. 
3122047	19871101	Mycopathologia	D016428 	Toxigenic fungi and the deterioration of Nigerian poultry feeds.	Growth of toxigenic strains of Aspergillus clavatus Des. and Aspergillus flavus Link at 30 degrees C on milled poultry feeds led to a considerable decrease in the protein, oil and crude fibre contents of the feed substrate. A corresponding increase in the free fatty acid fractions of the feeds due to the activities of these microbes was also recorded. Rapid degradation of the feedstuff by both species was recorded at a temperature of 25 degrees C and 30 degrees C and a pH range of 4.8-6.4. When grown on feed infusion broth at 30 degrees C, the highest amounts of mycelial production with sporulation of both fungal species occurred within the 8-day incubation period. A determination of their extra-cellular enzyme profile showed the production of amylases, pectate lyase, cellulases, proteases, lipases, xyalanases, DNase and RNase. All the carbon and nitrogen sources used (except L-sorbose and DL-tryptophan), supported good mycelial growth with sporulation. An optimal C:N ratio of 5.0:4.5 and 7.5:3.0 was recorded for growth and sporulation of A. clavatus. For A. flavus, a C:N ratio of 7.5:4.5 was found best for growth and 5.0:3.0 for sporulation. 
20097739	20100126	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Role of transcription factor CaNdt80p in cell separation, hyphal growth, and virulence in Candida albicans.	The NDT80/PhoG transcription factor family includes ScNdt80p, a key modulator of the progression of meiotic division in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In Candida albicans, a member of this family, CaNdt80p, modulates azole sensitivity by controlling the expression of ergosterol biosynthesis genes. We previously demonstrated that CaNdt80p promoter targets, in addition to ERG genes, were significantly enriched in genes related to hyphal growth. Here, we report that CaNdt80p is indeed required for hyphal growth in response to different filament-inducing cues and for the proper expression of genes characterizing the filamentous transcriptional program. These include noteworthy genes encoding cell wall components, such as HWP1, ECE1, RBT4, and ALS3. We also show that CaNdt80p is essential for the completion of cell separation through the direct transcriptional regulation of genes encoding the chitinase Cht3p and the cell wall glucosidase Sun41p. Consistent with their hyphal defect, ndt80 mutants are avirulent in a mouse model of systemic candidiasis. Interestingly, based on functional-domain organization, CaNdt80p seems to be a unique regulator characterizing fungi from the CTG clade within the subphylum Saccharomycotina. Therefore, this study revealed a new role of the novel member of the fungal NDT80 transcription factor family as a regulator of cell separation, hyphal growth, and virulence. 
23153046	20121117	Environ._Sci._Technol.	D016428 D013486 	Methanospirillum respiratory mRNA biomarkers correlate with hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis rate during growth and competition for hydrogen in an organochlorine-respiring mixed culture.	Molecular biomarkers hold promise for inferring rates of key metabolic activities in complex microbial systems. However, few studies have assessed biomarker levels for simultaneously occurring (and potentially competing) respirations. In this study, methanogenesis biomarkers for Methanospirillum hungatei were developed, tested, and compared to Dehalococcoides mccartyi biomarkers in a well-characterized mixed culture. Proteomic analyses of mixed culture samples (n = 4) confirmed expression of many M. hungatei methanogenesis enzymes. The mRNAs for two oxidoreductases detected were explored as quantitative biomarkers of hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis: a coenzyme F(420)-reducing hydrogenase (FrcA) and an iron sulfur protein (MvrD). As shown previously in D. mccartyi, M. hungatei transcript levels correlated linearly with measured (R = 0.97 for FrcA, R = 0.91 for MvrD; n = 7) or calculated respiration rate (R = 0.81 for FrcA, R = 0.62 for MvrD; n = 35) across two orders of magnitude on a log-log scale. The average abundance of MvrD transcripts was consistently two orders of magnitude lower than FrcA, regardless of experimental condition. In experiments where M. hungatei was competing for hydrogen with D. mccartyi, transcripts for the key respiratory hydrogenase HupL were generally less abundant per mL than FrcA and more abundant than MvrD. With no chlorinated electron acceptor added, HupL transcripts fell below both targets. These biomarkers hold promise for the prediction of in situ rates of respiration for these microbes, even when growing in mixed culture and utilizing a shared substrate which has important implications for both engineered and environmental systems. However, the differences in overall biomarker abundances suggest that the strength of any particular mRNA biomarker relies upon empirically established quantitative trends under a range of pertinent conditions. 
20066571	20100113	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Xylooligosaccharides production from alkali-pretreated sugarcane bagasse using xylanases from Thermoascus aurantiacus.	Sugarcane bagasse hemicellulose was isolated in a one-step chemical extraction using hydrogen peroxide in alkaline media. The polysaccharide containing 80.9% xylose and small amounts of L-arabinose, 4-O-methyl-D-glucuronic acid and glucose, was hydrolyzed by crude enzymatic extracts from Thermoascus aurantiacus at 50 degrees C. Conditions of enzymatic hydrolysis leading to the best yields of xylose and xylooligosaccharides (DP 2-5) were investigated using substrate concentration in the range 0.5-3.5% (w/v), enzyme load 40-80 U/g of the substrate, and reaction time from 3 to 96 h, applying a 2(2) factorial design. The maximum conversion to xylooligosaccharides (37.1%) was obtained with 2.6% of substrate and xylanase load of 60 U/g. The predicted maximum yield of xylobiose by a polynomial model was 41.6%. Crude enzymatic extract of T. aurantiacus generate from sugarcane bagasse hemicellulose 39% of xylose, 59% of xylobiose, and 2% of other xylooligosaccharides. 
12449800	20021127	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[An immunoregulatory effect of endoglucanase preparations on plant resistance to fungal infections].	Effects of enzymatic preparations--pectomacerin, hemicellulase, and Trichoderma viride 13/10 cellulase--on the plant immunological status were studied by examples of the pathosystems carrot root-white rot agent (Sclerotinia libertiana) and carrot root-black rot agent (Rhizopus nigricans). It was demonstrated that these preparations reduced the damage of infections, namely, decreased the permeability of cell membranes in infected tissue and stimulated its defense responses, which manifested itself in a stable elevation in the content of phenolic compounds and formation of tissue protective barriers. 
20668917	20100730	Biodegradation	D016428 D013485 	Ecology of coarse wood decomposition by the saprotrophic fungus Fomes fomentarius.	Saprotrophic wood-inhabiting basidiomycetes are the most important decomposers of lignin and cellulose in dead wood and as such they attracted considerable attention. The aims of this work were to quantify the activity and spatial distribution of extracellular enzymes in coarse wood colonised by the white-rot basidiomycete Fomes fomentarius and in adjacent fruitbodies of the fungus and to analyse the diversity of the fungal and bacterial community in a fungus-colonised wood and its potential effect on enzyme production by F. fomentarius. Fungus-colonised wood and fruitbodies were collected in low management intensity forests in the Czech Republic. There were significant differences in enzyme production by F. fomentarius between Betula pendula and Fagus sylvatica wood, the activity of cellulose and xylan-degrading enzymes was significantly higher in beech wood than in birch wood. Spatial analysis of a sample B. pendula log segment proved that F. fomentarius was the single fungal representative found in the log. There was a high level of spatial variability in the amount of fungal biomass detected, but no effects on enzyme activities were observed. Samples from the fruiting body showed high β-glucosidase and chitinase activities compared to wood samples. Significantly higher levels of xylanase and cellobiohydrolase were found in samples located near the fruitbody (proximal), and higher laccase and Mn-peroxidase activities were found in the distal ones. The microbial community in wood was dominated by the fungus (fungal to bacterial DNA ratio of 62-111). Bacterial abundance composition was lower in proximal than distal parts of wood by a factor of 24. These results show a significant level of spatial heterogeneity in coarse wood. One of the explanations may be the successive colonization of wood by the fungus: due to differential enzyme production, the rates of biodegradation of coarse wood are also spatially inhomogeneous. 
15770448	20050317	Mycopathologia	D016428 D013485 	Purification and partial characterization of two chitinases from the mycoparasitic fungus Talaromyces flavus.	Chitinases were produced by Talaromyces flavus CGMCC 3.4301 when it was grown in the presence of chitin. Two chitinases from the culture filtrate of T. flavus were purified to homogeneity by fractional ammonium sulphate precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sepharose and Phenyl-Sepharose hydrophobic interaction chromatography. By SDS-PAGE, the molecular weight of the two enzymes was estimated to be 41 and 32 kDa, respectively. The 41 kDa chitinase (CHIT41) had a 4.0 pH optimum; the 32 kDa chitinase (CHIT32) optimum activity was at pH 5.0. The optimum temperature for the two chitinase activities was 40 degrees C. The two chitinases had activity against cell wall of Verticillium dahliae, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum and Rhizoctonia solani, and inhibited spore germination and germ tube elongation of Alternaria alternata, Fusarium moniliforme, and Magnaporthe grisea. 
19705202	20090826	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Mycoparasitism of endophytic fungi isolated from reed on soilborne phytopathogenic fungi and production of cell wall-degrading enzymes in vitro.	Antagonism of three endophytic fungi isolated from common reed (Phragmites australis) against eight soilborne pathogenic fungi was investigated on potato dextrose agar by light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. Inhibitory zones were not observed. The microscopical studies suggested that the endophytes inhibit growth of soilborne pathogens by means of coiling around hyphae and, after penetration, the degradation of hyphal cytoplasm. Since penetration of hyphae seems to play a major role in parasitism, we studied the production of cell wall degrading enzymes by the three endophytes. Choiromyces aboriginum produced higher activities of beta-1,3-glucanases compared to Stachybotrys elegans and Cylindrocarpon sp. For C. aboriginum and S. elegans, colloidal chitin was the best substrate for the induction of beta-1,3-glucanases and chitinases, respectively. This result suggests that mycoparasitism by endophytes on soilborne plant pathogens can be explained by their mycoparasitic activity. 
18410286	20080416	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	The beta-1,3-glucanosyltransferase gas4p is essential for ascospore wall maturation and spore viability in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Meiosis is the developmental programme by which sexually reproducing diploid organisms generate haploid gametes. In yeast, meiosis is followed by spore morphogenesis. The formation of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe ascospore wall requires the co-ordinated activity of enzymes involved in the biosynthesis and modification of its components, such as glucans. During sporogenesis, the beta-1,3-glucan synthase bgs2p synthesizes linear beta-1,3-glucans, which remain unorganized and alkali-soluble until covalent linkages are set up between beta-1,3-glucans and other cell wall components. Several proteins belonging to the glycoside hydrolase family 72 (GH72) with beta-1,3-glucanosyltransferase activity have been described in other organisms, such as the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Gas1p or the Aspergillus fumigatus Gel1p. Here we describe the characterization of gas4(+), a new gene that encodes a protein of the GH72 family. Deletion of this gene does not lead to any apparent defect during vegetative growth, but homozygous gas4Delta diploids show a sporulation defect. Although meiosis occurs normally, ascospores are unable to mature or to germinate. The expression of gas4(+) is strongly induced during sporulation and a yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-gas4p fusion protein localizes to the ascospore periphery during sporulation. We conclude that gas4p is required for ascospore maturation in S. pombe. 
21193346	20110104	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 	Loss of Aspergillus oryzae amyR function indirectly affects hemicellulolytic and cellulolytic enzyme production.	Aspergillus oryzae AB390, a derivative of A. oryzae OR101, was found to be suitable for soy sauce production, yielding a product light brown in color. Compared to the parent strain, hemicellulase and cellulase activities in the mutant were higher; however, its amylase activity was found to be much lower. To determine the cause of these differences, the enzymatic profile change, as a function of the carbon source in submerged cultures, was examined. Amylase activity in AB390 was hardly detectable and not affected by the carbon source utilized. In the absence of starch where glucose could not be generated, hemicellulase and cellulase activities in both the parent and mutant were the same. A nonsense mutation was found in the upstream region of the putative transactivation domain of the transcriptional activator of the amylolytic genes, amyR in AB390. Complementation of AB390 with the wild-type amyR reduced hemicellulase and cellulase activities and increased amylase activity in soy sauce koji, the mold responsible for giving soy sauce. Northern analysis and two-dimensional (2-D) electrophoresis indicated that the unique enzymatic profile of AB390 was regulated transcriptionally. The results suggested that the loss of amyR function indirectly affected the production of hemicellulolytic and cellulolytic enzymes, likely through a carbon catabolite repression-mediated control. 
10803904	20000510	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Simultaneous production of high activities of thermostable endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase by the wild thermophilic fungus Thermoascus aurantiacus.	The culture-medium composition was optimised, on a shake-flask scale, for simultaneous production of high activities of endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase by Thermoascus aurantiacus using statistical factorial designs. The optimised medium containing 40.2 g l(-1) Solka Floc as the carbon source and 9 g l(-1) soymeal as the organic nitrogen source yielded 1130 nkat ml(-1) endoglucanase and 116 nkat ml(-1) beta-glucosidase activities after 264 h as shake cultures. In addition, good levels of beta-xylanase (3479 nkat ml(-1)) and low levels of filter-paper cellulase, beta-xylosidase, alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase, beta-mannanase, beta-mannosidase, alpha-galactosidase and beta-galactosidase were detected. Batch fermentation in a 5-1 laboratory fermentor using the optimised medium allowed the production of 940 nkat ml(-1) endoglucanase and 102 nkat ml(-1) beta-glucosidase in 192 h. Endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase showed optimum activity at pH 4.5 and pH 5, respectively, and they displayed optimum activity at 75 degrees C. Endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase showed good stability at pH values 4-8 and 4-7, respectively, after a prolonged incubation (48 h at 50 degrees C). Endoglucanase had half-lives of 98 h at 70 degrees C and 4.1 h at 75 degrees C, while beta-glucosidase had half-lives of 23.5 h at 70 degrees C and 1.7 h at 75 degrees C. Alkali-treated bagasse, steam-treated wheat straw, Solka floc and Sigmacell 50 were 66, 48.5, 33.5 and 14.4% hydrolysed by a crude enzyme complex of T. aurantiacus in 50 h. 
18980666	20081105	BMC_Evol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Evolution of GHF5 endoglucanase gene structure in plant-parasitic nematodes: no evidence for an early domain shuffling event.	Endo-1,4-beta-glucanases or cellulases from the glycosyl hydrolase family 5 (GHF5) have been found in numerous bacteria and fungi, and recently also in higher eukaryotes, particularly in plant-parasitic nematodes (PPN). The origin of these genes has been attributed to horizontal gene transfer from bacteria, although there still is a lot of uncertainty about the origin and structure of the ancestral GHF5 PPN endoglucanase. It is not clear whether this ancestral endoglucanase consisted of the whole gene cassette, containing a catalytic domain and a carbohydrate-binding module (CBM, type 2 in PPN and bacteria) or only of the catalytic domain while the CBM2 was retrieved by domain shuffling later in evolution. Previous studies on the evolution of these genes have focused primarily on data of sedentary nematodes, while in this study, extra data from migratory nematodes were included. Two new endoglucanases from the migratory nematodes Pratylenchus coffeae and Ditylenchus africanus were included in this study. The latter one is the first gene isolated from a PPN of a different superfamily (Sphaerularioidea); all previously known nematode endoglucanases belong to the superfamily Tylenchoidea (order Rhabditida). Phylogenetic analyses were conducted with the PPN GHF5 endoglucanases and homologous endoglucanases from bacterial and other eukaryotic lineages such as beetles, fungi and plants. No statistical incongruence between the phylogenetic trees deduced from the catalytic domain and the CBM2 was found, which could suggest that both domains have evolved together. Furthermore, based on gene structure data, we inferred a model for the evolution of the GHF5 endoglucanase gene structure in plant-parasitic nematodes. Our data confirm a close relationship between Pratylenchus spp. and the root knot nematodes, while some Radopholus similis endoglucanases are more similar to cyst nematode genes. We conclude that the ancestral PPN GHF5 endoglucanase gene most probably consisted of the whole gene cassette, i.e. the GHF5 catalytic domain and the CBM2, rather than that it evolved by domain shuffling. Our evolutionary model for the gene structure in PPN GHF5 endoglucanases implies the occurrence of an early duplication event, and more recent gene duplications at genus or species level. 
19428727	20090512	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of an alkalo-tolerant fungal xylanase enhanced by directed evolution in Pichia pastoris and Escherichia coli.	The alkaline stability of the xylanase from Thermomyces lanuginosus was further improved by directed evolution using error-prone PCR mutagenesis. Positive clones were selected by their ability to produce zones of clearing on pH 9 and 12 xylan agar plates. Variant NC38 was able to withstand harsh alkaline conditions retaining 84% activity after exposure at pH 10 for 90 min at 60 degrees C, while the parent enzyme had 22% activity after 60 min. The alkaline stable variant NC38 was cloned into pBGP1 under the control GAP promoter and pET22b(+) for expression in Pichia pastoris and Escherichia coli BL21, respectively. Best extracellular expression of the recombinant xylanase was observed in P. pastoris (261.7+/-0.61 U ml(-1)) whereas intracellular activity was observed in E. coli (47.9+/-0.28 U ml(-1)) was low. Total activity obtained in P. pastoris was 545-fold higher than E. coli. The mutated alkaline stable xylanase from P. pastoris was secreted into the culture medium with little or no contamination by host proteins, which favours the application of this enzyme in the pulp and paper industry. 
7881184	19941001	Glycobiology	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Production, purification and characterization of recombinant yeast processing alpha 1,2-mannosidase.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae processing alpha 1,2-mannosidase, which trims Man9GlcNAc to Man8GlcNAc, has a lumenally oriented catalytic domain and an N-terminal transmembrane domain. To obtain sufficient protein to study the structure and mechanism of action of this enzyme, the sequence encoding the catalytic domain was inserted downstream of the alpha-factor promoter and signal peptide in a high-copy vector for expression in S. cerevisiae as a secreted protein. Using oligosaccharide substrate (Glc1Man9GlcNAc or Man9GlcNAc), the medium of cells transformed with this plasmid showed an increase in alpha-mannosidase activity that was directly related to the increase in cell density, whereas no alpha-mannosidase activity was detected in cells transformed with vector alone. SDS-PAGE of the medium showed the presence of a doublet of 63 and 60 kDa that was revealed by Coomassie Blue staining and by Western blotting with antibodies to the endogenous solubilized alpha-mannosidase. The recombinant alpha-mannosidase was present in the medium at a level of approximately 1 mg/l and was purified in a single step by chromatography on S-Sepharose. High-resolution 1H NMR analysis of the Man8GlcNAc formed from Man9GlcNAc in the presence of the recombinant enzyme proved that it retained its specificity and removed only one specific alpha 1,2-mannose residue of the alpha 1,3 branch. Endoglycosidase H treatment decreased the molecular mass of both components of the doublet by approximately 5 kDa, showing that the heterogeneity is not due to differential N-glycosylation. EDTA inhibited the activity of the recombinant enzyme, but the inhibition was reversed by the addition of divalent cations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
6891887	19821101	Ann._Microbiol._(Paris)	D004740 D016428 	[Hydrolysis of cellulose by fungi. II. Production of cellulases by Trichoderma harzianum by fermentation in liquid media].	Microcristalline cellulose (cellulose Avicel, Merck) supported growth of Trichoderma harzianum and induced production of cellulases in liquid cultures. After 50 h growth, the total cellulasic activities present in both the supernatant and the mycelium were 3,000 IU/l of carboxymethyl cellulose, 400 IU/l of filter paper activity, and 4 IU/l of cotton activity corresponding to 1.7 g/l of proteins. Cellulase production could be increased by a preliminary treatment of cellulose, and pH regulation during growth. The influence of inoculum concentration was studied and an optimum of 3 x 10(7) conidia/g dry weight of substrate was demonstrated. Using a synthetic culture medium, a soluble factor of germination was demonstrated which could be leached out by 3 successive washings of conidia. 
9477552	19980321	Biotechnol._Appl._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 	Action of Trichoderma reesei and Aspergillus oryzae esterases in the deacetylation of hemicelluloses.	Xylans and mannans contain different esterified substituents such as acetyl, feruloyl and p-coumaroyl side groups. The functions of hemicellulose-deacetylating esterases of Trichoderma reesei and Aspergillus oryzae are discussed in this paper. Both fungi produce multiple esterases and two different esterases were isolated from both T. reesei and A. oryzae. The enzymes differed significantly in their substrate specificities. Acetyl xylan esterase of T. reesei was highly active on polymeric xylan but was unable to remove acetyl substituents from glucomannan or phenolic substituents from wheat straw arabinoxylan. Another esterase, acetyl esterase from T. reesei, had activity only towards short oligomeric and monomeric acetates derived both from xylan and glucomannan. The acetyl glucomannan esterase of A. oryzae was most active towards polymeric glucomannan, but was also able to remove acetyl groups from xylan. The only esterase studied which was active against phenolic substituents in arabinoxylans was the feruloyl esterase from A. oryzae. Feruloyl esterase had the widest substrate specificity of the esterases studied. It was also able to act on acetyl groups both in xylan and in glucomannan. The simultaneous enzymic liberation of acetyl groups from xylan and glucomannan clearly enhanced the action of xylan- and mannan-degrading enzymes, thus increasing the hydrolysis yield significantly. However, none of the esterases was able to remove all acetyl substituents when acting alone and simultaneous action of two esterases was needed for complete deacetylation. 
9244183	19970110	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	In vivo processing of the precursor of the major exoglucanase by KEX2 endoprotease in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae secretory pathway.	We have established the main post-translational modification of the major exoglucanase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae as the enzyme progresses through the secretory pathway. The protein portion of the enzyme accumulated by sec18 cells was about 2 kDa larger than that of the secreted enzyme. This precursor (form A) was stable when maintained in the endoplasmic reticulum but was processed to the mature form (form B) before the block imposed by the sec7 mutation. Sec7 cells, when incubated at 37 degrees C, accumulated form B first, but upon prolonged incubation, form A was preferentially accumulated. When the supply of newly synthesized exoglucanase was prevented by the addition of cycloheximide, the accumulated A was transformed into B in the presence of altered Sec7p that still prevented secretion. Conversion of A into B was prevented in the double mutant sec7 kex2-1, indicating that Kex2p is central to the in vivo processing. Consistent with this, a KEX2 deletion mutant secreted form A exclusively. Conversion of A into B was also prevented in sec7 cells by the presence of dinitrophenol, a poison that depletes ATP levels, indicating that processing is dependent upon intracellular transport which involves ER --> Golgi and/or, at least, one intra-Golgi step(s). It follows that this transport step(s) is independent of functional Sec7p. 
2834092	19860101	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Insertion of non-homologous DNA sequences into a regulatory gene cause a constitutive maltase synthesis in yeast.	Two maltase constitutive alleles MAL1-1c and MAL1-2c were obtained as revertants from a defective mall-1 mutant allele not promoting maltose fermentation. Classical genetical analysis showed that the mutations were linked or allelic to the MAL1 locus. Dominance relations were established by testing alpha-glucosidase activities in diploids containing various allele combinations. The maltose regulatory genes belonging to the MAL1, MAL1-1c and MAL1-2c alleles were cloned. Differences in restriction sites were found between the wild type MAL1 and the derived MAL1-constitutive alleles. The MAL1 regulatory gene was located in a 1.15 kb EcoRI fragment (Rodicio and Zimmermann 1985a, b). An EcoRI fragment of this size was found in plasmids containing the MAL1 regulatory wild type allele but was absent from plasmids carrying the constitutive alleles. The genomic organization of the MAL loci in the constitutive mutants was confirmed by Southern analysis. Various fragments containing sequences of the different MAL1 alleles were used to probe genomic digests of MAL1, MAL1-1c and MAL1-2c strains. The results obtained support the conclusion that the constitutive mutations had arisen by a rearrangement between the original mal1-1 mutant allele and sequences with different location in the genome. 
21435891	20110326	Plant_Physiol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	The changes in pectin metabolism in flax infected with Fusarium.	Fusarium culmorum and Fusarium oxysporum are the most common fungal pathogens of flax (Linum usitatissimum L.), thus leading to the greatest losses in crop yield. A subtractive cDNA library was constructed from flax seedlings exposed for two days to F. oxysporum. This revealed a set of genes that are potentially involved in the flax defense responses. Two of those genes directly participate in cell wall sugar polymer metabolism: UDP-D-glucuronate 4-epimerase (GAE; EC 5.1.3.6) and formate dehydrogenase (FDH; EC 1.2.1.2). GAE delivers the main substrate for pectin biosynthesis, and decreases were detected in its mRNA level after Fusarium infection. FDH participates in the metabolism of formic acid, and the expression level of its gene increased after Fusarium infection. However, metabolite profiling analysis disclosed that the pectin content in the infected plants remained unchanged, but that there were reductions in both the levels of the soluble sugars that serve as pectin precursors, and in the level of formic acid. Since formic acid is the product of pectin demethylesterification, the level of mRNAs coding for pectin methylesterase (EC 3.1.1.11) in the infected flax was measured, revealing a decrease in its expression upon plant infection. Transgenic flax plants overexpressing fungal polygalacturonase (EC 3.2.1.15) and rhamnogalacturonase (EC 3.2.1.-) showed a decrease in the pectin content and an elevated level of formic acid, but the level of expression of the FDH gene remained unchanged. It is suspected that the expression of the formate dehydrogenase gene is directly controlled by the pathogen in the early stage of infection, and additionally by pectin degradation in the later stages. 
17301230	20070216	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 	Adaptive climatic molecular evolution in wild barley at the Isa defense locus.	Wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum) represents a significant genetic resource for crop improvement in barley (Hordeum vulgare) and for the study of the evolution and domestication of plant populations. The Isa gene from barley has a putative role in plant defense. This gene encodes a bifunctional alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitor that inhibits the bacterial serine protease subtilisin, fungal xylanase, and the plant's own alpha-amylase. The inhibition of plant alpha-amylases suggests this protein may also be important for grain quality from a human perspective. We identified 16 SNPs in the coding region of the Isa locus of 178 wild barley accessions from eight climatically divergent sites across Israel. The pattern of SNPs suggested a large number of recombination events within this gene, indicating that the low-outcrossing rate of wild barley is not a barrier to recombinant haplotypes becoming established in the population. Seven amino acid substitutions were present in the coding region. Genetic diversity for each population was calculated by using Nei's diversity index, and a Spearman rank correlation was carried out to test the association between gene diversity and 16 ecogeographical factors. Highly significant correlations were found between diversity at the Isa locus and key water variables, evaporation, rainfall, humidity, and latitude. The pattern of association suggests selective sweeps in the wetter climates, with resulting low diversity and weaker selection or diversifying selection in the dryer climates resulting in much higher diversity. 
8017902	19940201	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Properties and engineering of a mutant STA promoter of Saccharomyces diastaticus.	A new allelic variant of the STA2 gene of S. diastaticus, designated as STA2K, was cloned and characterized (1; accompanying paper). An application-oriented analysis of the promoter region of STA2K is described, with an emphasis on its peculiar structural feature: A 1.1-kb natural deletion located 189 nucleotides upstream of the translation start codon. The strength of the STA2K promoter was found comparable to that of known strong constitutive yeast promoters (ADH1, GAPDH). Regulated glucoamylase expression was demonstrated by chimeric promoters, which were constructed by placing the STA2K promoter under the control of either the PHO5 or CYC1 upstream regulatory sequences. On high-copy-number vectors, induction of the UASPHO5-STA2K chimeric promoter by phosphate depletion resulted in a destructive overexpression of the secreted glucoamylase, which completely halted cell growth, and promoted cell decay. In contrast, UASCYC1 was shown to mediate a fine-tuned regulation both by glucose concentration and, indirectly, by starch, the substrate for the glucoamylase to produce glucose. 
5126911	19710701	Biochem._J.	D016428 	The hydrolysis of glycosyl fluorides by glycosidases. Determination of the anomeric configuration of the products of glycosidase action.	The enzymic hydrolysis of glycosyl fluorides is conveniently followed by using a pH-stat. Reactions involving glucosyl or galactosyl fluorides can also be followed by using glucose oxidase or galactose oxidase respectively. The pH-stat allows the rapid assay of intestinal alpha-glucosidase in crude homogenates. Use of glycosyl fluorides as substrates for glycosidases facilitates the polarimetric or g.l.c. determination of the anomeric nature of the initial product of hydrolysis. Hydrolysis by fungal amyloglucosidase proceeds with inversion of configuration whereas that by yeast and rat intestinal alpha-glucosidase, coffee-bean alpha-galactosidase and almond emulsin beta-glucosidase proceeds with retention of configuration. beta-d-Glucopyranosyl azide was not a detectable substrate for almond emulsin beta-d-glucosidase. 
23410928	20130216	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression of endo-1,4-β-xylanase A from Schizophyllum commune in Pichia pastoris and functional characterization of the recombinant enzyme.	Endo-1,4-β-xylanase A (XynA) from Schizophyllum commune was cloned into pPCZαA and expressed in Pichia pastoris GS115. The open reading frame of the xynA gene is composed of 684 bp, encoding 278 amino acids with a molecular weight of 26 kDa. Based on sequence similarity, XynA belongs to the CAZy glycoside hydrolase family 11. The optimal activity of XynA was at pH 5 and 50 °C on beechwood xylan. Under these conditions, the K(m), V(max) and specific activity of XynA were 5768 units mg(-1), 4 mg ml(-1) and 9000 μmol min(-1)mg(-1), respectively. XynA activity was enhanced in the presence of cations, such as K(+), Na(+), Li(2+), Cd(2+), and Co(2+). However, in the presence of EDTA, Hg(2+) and Fe(3+), xylanase activity was significantly inhibited. This enzyme effectively degraded approximately 45% of unsubstituted xylans in the cell wall from poplar stems. The high level of XynA activity might increase the yield of enzyme hydrolysis from biomass. Thus, XynA could be used as a major component of a lignocellulosic degrading enzyme cocktail. 
7197022	19810701	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Detection of transglycosylation reactions under the influence of Trichoderma koningii and Trichoderma viride cellulase].	The transglycosylation reactions catalyzed by the low molecular weight endo-beta-1,4-glucanase from the cellulase complex of Trichoderma koningii as well as unseparated complexes from Tr. koningii and Tr. viride were investigated. The products obtained from the mixture of cellodextrine (donor, 0.5%) and p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside (acceptor, 0.4%) with the aid of the above enzymes were analyzed. Transglycosylation products were separated by Sephadex G-15 gel-filtration. In all the three cases the highest molecular weight p-nitrophenyl glycosides of oligosaccharides (with a molecular weight of over 1500) were first synthesized and then hydrolyzed. At the beginning of the reaction the amount of p-nitrophenyl glycosides of oligosaccharides synthesized was greater than that of the reducing groups measured according to Nelson. Addition of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside to cellodextrine did not influence the rate with which the latter was hydrolyzed by endoglucanase. 
9418063	19980107	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Endoglucanase production by paper-degrading mycoflora.	Fourteen fungal species, namely Aspergillus flavus, A. fumigatus, A. niger, A. ustus, Penicillium islandicum, P. wortmannii, Memnoniella echinata, Cladosporium herbarum, Stachybotrys atra, Chaetomium globosum, Fusarium oxysporum, Torula herbarum, Alternaria alternata and Curvularia uncinata were isolated from different grades of paper. They differ in their distribution on various kinds of paper and also in relative occurrence. While seasonal influence on mycoflora was observed, most of the moulds were capable of growing in all three seasons examined (summer, winter, rainy season). The moulds were cellulolytic in nature and endoglucanase activity was greatest in Aspergillus flavus, A. niger, A. fumigatus, P. wortmannii and P. islandicum. 
19021791	20081122	J._Food_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Amylolytic hydrolysis of native starch granules affected by granule surface area.	Initial stage of hydrolysis of native starch granules with various amylolytic enzymes, alpha-amylase from Bacillus subtilis, glucoamylase I (GA-I) and II (GA-II) from Aspergillus niger, and beta-amylase from sweet potato showed that the reaction was apparently affected by a specific surface area of the starch granules. The ratios of the reciprocal of initial velocity of each amylolytic hydrolysis for native potato and maize starch to that for rice with the amylolytic enzymes were nearly equivalent to the ratio of surface area per mass of the 2 starch granules to that of rice, that is, 6.94 and 2.25, respectively. Thus, the reciprocal of initial velocity of each enzymatic hydrolysis as expressed in a Lineweaver-Burk plot was a linear function of the reciprocal of surface area for each starch granule. As a result, it is concluded that amylolytic hydrolysis of native starch granules is governed by the specific surface area, not by the mass concentration, of each granule. 
11745178	20011218	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016422 D013485 	Exploitation of a library of alpha-galactosidases for the synthesis of building blocks for glycopolymers.	After screening a library of fungal alpha-galactosidases for the synthesis of functionalized alkyl alpha-D-galactopyranosides, four enzymes (isolated from Aspergillus terreus CCM55, Aspergillus commune CCM 2969, Penicillium vinaceum CCM 2384, or Penicillium brasilianum 2155) proved to be suitable for these biotransformations. The effect of different concentrations of alcohol on activity and stability of these enzymes was investigated. After optimization of the reaction conditions, three galactose derivatives (allyl, 2-nitroethyl and 2-(2',2',2'-trifluoroacetamido)-ethyl alpha-D-galactopyranoside, 1a, 3a, and 4a, respectively), suitable for subsequent chemical polymerization, were synthesized using either the "reverse hydrolysis" or the "transglycosylation" protocols. 
22708811	20120620	Prep._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of mutanase produced by Paenibacillus curdlanolyticus MP-1.	Mutanases are enzymes that catalyze hydrolysis of α-1,3-glucosidic bonds in various α-glucans. One of such glucans, mutan, which is synthesized by cariogenic streptococci, is a major virulence factor for induction of dental caries. This means that mutan-degrading enzymes have potential in caries prophylaxis. In this study, we report the purification, characterization, and partial amino acid sequence of extracellular mutanase produced by the MP-1 strain of Paenibacillus curdlanolyticus, bacterium isolated from soil. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of the purified enzyme showed a single protein band of molecular mass 134 kD, while native gel filtration chromatography confirmed that the enzyme was a monomer of 142 kD. Mutanase showed a pH optimum in the range from pH 5.5 to 6.5 and a temperature optimum around 40-45°C. It was thermostable up to 45°C, and retained 50% activity after 1 hr at 50°C. The enzyme was fully stable at a pH range of 4 to 10. The enzyme activity was stimulated by the addition of Tween 20, Tween 80, and Ca²⁺, but it was significantly inhibited by Hg²⁺, Ag⁺, and Fe²⁺, and also by p-chloromercuribenzoate, iodoacetamide, and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA). Mutanase preparation preferentially catalyzed the hydrolysis of various streptococcal mutans and fungal α-1,3-glucans. It also showed binding activity to insoluble α-1,3-glucans. The N-terminal amino acid sequence was NH₂-Ala-Gly-Gly-Thr-Asn-Leu-Ala-Leu-Gly-Lys-Asn-Val-Thr-Ala-Ser-Gly-Gln. This sequence indicated an analogy of the enzyme to α-1,3-glucanases from other Paenibacillus and Bacillus species. 
23075786	20121019	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Biocontrol of anthracnose in pepper using chitinase, beta-1,3 glucanase, and 2-furancarboxaldehyde produced by Streptomyces cavourensis SY224.	A strain of Streptomyces cavourensis subsp. cavourensis (coded as SY224) antagonistic to Colletotrichum gloeosporioides infecting pepper plants was isolated. SY224 produced lytic enzymes such as chitinase, beta-1,3-glucanase, lipase, and protease in respective assays. To examine for antifungal activity, the treatments amended with the nonsterilized supernatant resulted in the highest growth inhibition rate of about 92.9% and 87.4% at concentrations of 30&percnt; and 10&percnt;, respectively. However, the sterilized treatments (autoclaved or chloroform treated) gave a lowered but significant inhibitory effect of about 63.4% and 62.6% for the 10% supernatant concentration, and 75.2% and 74.8% for the of 30% supernatant concentration in the PDA agar medium, respectively, indicative of the role of a nonprotein, heat stable compound on the overall effect. This antifungal compound, which inhibited spore germination and altered hyphal morphology, was extracted by EtOAc and purified by ODS, silica gel, Sephadex LH-20 column, and HPLC, where an active fraction was confirmed to be 2-furancarboxaldehyde by GS-CI MS techniques. These results suggested that SY224 had a high potential in the biocontrol of anthracnose in pepper, mainly due to a combined effect of lytic enzymes and a non-protein, heatstable antifungal compound, 2-furancarboxaldehyde. 
3111495	19870601	Biotechnol._Appl._Biochem.	D016428 	beta-Glucosidases from cellulolytic fungi Aspergillus terreus, Geotrichum candidum, and Trichoderma longibrachiatum as typical glycosidases.	By ethanol precipitation (v/v) and chromatography on Sephadex SP, DEAE (or DEAE-cellulose), and G-200 beta-glucosidases (EC 3.2.1.21) from the culture filtrates of cellulolytic fungi Aspergillus terreus, Geotrichum candidum, and Trichoderma longibrachiatum grown on the medium with cellulose containing materials were isolated. The enzymes were homogenous as shown by different techniques. The substrate specificities of the obtained enzymes were studied. beta-Glucosidases had higher affinity for p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside than for cellobiose (Km 1.25, 0.34, 0.20 and 5.4, 2.0, 1.2 mM, respectively) and were able to hydrolyze both laminaribiose and gentiobiose; but they were unable to cleave cotton fiber, carboxymethylcellulose, and other glycans to reducing sugars. They showed transglycosylase activity. Ki values for arylglucosidase activity of beta-glucosidases from A. terreus, G. candidum, and T. longibrachiatum in the presence of either glucose or glucono-1,5-lactone were 12.2, 6.0, 2.1 and 0.20, 0.19, 0.07 mM, respectively. The Mr's were estimated by gel filtration and by sedimentation equilibrium centrifugation to 200,000, 200,000, 350,000, respectively. The isoelectric points of beta-glucosidases were 4.8, 5.9, and 4.2, respectively. The optimum temperatures and pH's were 60, 50, and 50 degrees C and at pH 4.5, 4.5, and 4.8-5.7, respectively. These properties appear to relate beta-glucosidases obtained in the present study to typical glycosidases. 
24020787	20130912	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Saccharification of pumpkin residues by coculturing of Trichoderma reesei RUT-C30 and Phanerochaete chrysosporium Burdsall with delayed inoculation timing.	Trichoderma reesei and Phanerochaete chrysosporium with different lignocellulose-degrading enzyme systems have received much attention due to their ability to biodegrade lignocellulosic biomass. However, the synergistic effect of the two fungi on lignocellulose degradation is unknown. Herein, a cocultivation of T. reesei RUT-C30 and P. chrysosporium Burdsall for biodegradation of lignocellulosic pumpkin residues (PRS) was developed to produce soluble saccharide. Results indicated that a cocultivation of the two fungi with P. chrysosporium Burdsall inoculation delayed for 1.5 days produced the highest saccharide yield of 53.08% (w/w), and only 20.83% (w/w) of PRS were left after one batch of fermentation. In addition, this strategy increased the activities of secreted cellulases (endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, and β-glucosidase) and ligninases (lignin peroxidase and manganese peroxidase), which correlated to the increased saccharide yield. Besides, the resulting monosaccharides including glucose (1.23 mg/mL), xylose (0.13 mg/mL), arabinose (0.46 mg/mL), and fructose (0.21 mg/mL) from cocultures exhibited much higher yields than those from monoculture, which provides basal information for further fermentation research. This bioconversion of PRS into soluble sugars by cocultured fungal species provides a low cost method based on lignocellulose for potential biofuels or other bioproduct production.  
12552807	20030130	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Effect of 3'-UTR of EG I from Trichoderma reesei on its gene expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae].	Several industrial yeast are developed as ideal expression hosts for the production of the commercially useful proteins. The expression levels in yeast cells of the heterologous proteins are affected by the regulation factors of the genes themselves. The full-length cDNA coding for EG I from Trichoderma reesei, the cellulose-degrading filamentous fungus, was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae H158. EG I produced by the recombinant S. cerevisiae exhibits maximal activity at 50 degrees C-60 degrees C, pH 5.0. It was observed that removal of the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) from EG I cDNA resulted in no active EG I produced by recombinant yeast. RT-PCR analysis indicated that unlike the yeast cells harboring full-length EG I cDNA, there was no detectable EG I mRNA in the yeast cells harboring EG I cDNA without 3'-UTR. The data suggested that 3'-UTR is important for the expression of EG I in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
911942	19770801	Biokhimiia	D004740 D016428 	[Specificity of fungal alpha-glucosidases].	Studies of substrate and cosubstrate specificities of mould alpha-glucosidases suggest that the binding site of the active center of mould alpha-glucosidase consits of two subsites--glucone and aglucone ones. The glucone site is capable to bind glucose and mannose, whereas the aglucone one- some compounds whose affinity for the enzyme may be expressed as follows: glucose greater than galactose greater than paranitrophenol greater than or equal to glycerol greater than ethanol approximately equal to methanol. Upon interaction of enzyme with alpha-D-glucoside the formation of a productive enzyme-substrate complex occurs when the glucosyl residue located at the non-reducible end of the substrate molecule occupies the glucone subsite and aglucone of the substrate occupies the aglucone subsite of the enzyme. After removal of the first product from the aglucone subsite the substrate is bound at this subsite. It is assumed that under cosubstrate excess it is capable to bind at the aglucone subsite prior to the removal of the first product and the formation of the substituted form enzyme--glycosyl. Under these conditions the cosubstrate removes the substrate from the aglucone subsite resulting in a formation of a non-productive tertiary complex enzyme--substrate--cosubstrate. The anomeric configuration of glucose produced under the action of alpha-glucosidase on maltose and starch was determined using a kinetic method. 
11571172	20010926	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Generation of metal-binding staphylococci through surface display of combinatorially engineered cellulose-binding domains.	Ni(2+)-binding staphylococci were generated through surface display of combinatorially engineered variants of a fungal cellulose-binding domain (CBD) from Trichoderma reesei cellulase Cel7A. Novel CBD variants were generated by combinatorial protein engineering through the randomization of 11 amino acid positions, and eight potentially Ni(2+)-binding CBDs were selected by phage display technology. These new variants were subsequently genetically introduced into chimeric surface proteins for surface display on Staphylococcus carnosus cells. The expressed chimeric proteins were shown to be properly targeted to the cell wall of S. carnosus cells, since full-length proteins could be extracted and affinity purified. Surface accessibility for the chimeric proteins was demonstrated, and furthermore, the engineered CBDs, now devoid of cellulose-binding capacity, were shown to be functional with regard to metal binding, since the recombinant staphylococci had gained Ni(2+)-binding capacity. Potential environmental applications for such tailor-made metal-binding bacteria as bioadsorbents in biofilters or biosensors are discussed. 
21623935	20110601	Mycoses	D016428 D013485 	Discrimination between the enzymatic activities of Candida albicans pleomorphic forms determined using the api® ZYM test.	Enzymatic activity profiles for two morphotypes of 37 Candida albicans clinical isolates were compared. Yeast and hyphal forms were grown using yeast extract-peptone-glucose broth or undiluted human serum, respectively. Both morphotypes were documented under scanning electron microscopy. The api(®) ZYM (BioMérieux, France) test was used to evaluate the enzymatic activity profiles for particular pleomorphic forms. None of the examined enzymatic activities showed good agreement (kappa, κ > 0.80) for the two morphotypes of the tested strains. Only leucine arylamidase activity in blastoconidia and hyphae of 35 out of 37 strains appeared to be in significant agreement (κ = 0.770). This phenomenon should be explored further for clinical benefits. For morphotypes of all tested strains, activity profiles of 11 hydrolytic enzymes demonstrated weak agreement (κ = 0.044-0.197). Moreover, satisfactory (κ = 0.218-0.348) and moderate agreement (κ = 0.413-0.479) were noted for enzymatic activity values of five and two enzymes, respectively. The distinct differences in activity profiles of hydrolytic enzymes between hyphae and blastoconidia is suggested to be related to the specific roles of these two morphotypes in particular steps of pathogenesis. Moreover, both morphotypes should be examined by strain biotyping methods. Beta-N-hexosaminidase (HexNAcase) activity assessed by the api(®) ZYM test and on CHROMagar Candida(®) medium (Becton Dickinson, USA) is also discussed. 
22110134	20111124	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Origin of initial burst in activity for Trichoderma reesei endo-glucanases hydrolyzing insoluble cellulose.	The kinetics of cellulose hydrolysis have long been described by an initial fast hydrolysis rate, tapering rapidly off, leading to a process that takes days rather than hours to complete. This behavior has been mainly attributed to the action of cellobiohydrolases and often linked to the processive mechanism of this exo-acting group of enzymes. The initial kinetics of endo-glucanases (EGs) is far less investigated, partly due to a limited availability of quantitative assay technologies. We have used isothermal calorimetry to monitor the early time course of the hydrolysis of insoluble cellulose by the three main EGs from Trichoderma reesei (Tr): TrCel7B (formerly EG I), TrCel5A (EG II), and TrCel12A (EG III). These endo-glucanases show a distinctive initial burst with a maximal rate that is about 5-fold higher than the rate after 5 min of hydrolysis. The burst is particularly conspicuous for TrCel7B, which reaches a maximal turnover of about 20 s(-1) at 30 °C and conducts about 1200 catalytic cycles per enzyme molecule in the initial fast phase. For TrCel5A and TrCel12A the extent of the burst is 2-300 cycles per enzyme molecule. The availability of continuous data on EG activity allows an analysis of the mechanisms underlying the initial kinetics, and it is suggested that the slowdown is linked to transient inactivation of enzyme on the cellulose surface. We propose, therefore, that the frequency of structures on the substrate surface that cause transient inactivation determine the extent of the burst phase. 
16267281	20051104	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Unconventional mode of attachment of the Ruminococcus flavefaciens cellulosome to the cell surface.	Sequence extension of the scaffoldin gene cluster from Ruminococcus flavefaciens revealed a new gene (scaE) that encodes a protein with an N-terminal cohesin domain and a C terminus with a typical gram-positive anchoring signal for sortase-mediated attachment to the bacterial cell wall. The recombinant cohesin of ScaE was recovered after expression in Escherichia coli and was shown to bind to the C-terminal domain of the cellulosomal structural protein ScaB, as well as to three unknown polypeptides derived from native cellulose-bound Ruminococcus flavefaciens protein extracts. The ScaB C terminus includes a cryptic dockerin domain that is unusual in its sequence, and considerably larger than conventional dockerins. The ScaB dockerin binds to ScaE, suggesting that this interaction occurs through a novel cohesin-dockerin pairing. The novel ScaB dockerin was expressed as a xylanase fusion protein, which was shown to bind tenaciously and selectively to a recombinant form of the ScaE cohesin. Thus, ScaE appears to play a role in anchoring the cellulosomal complex to the bacterial cell envelope via its interaction with ScaB. This sortase-mediated mechanism for covalent cell-wall anchoring of the cellulosome in R. flavefaciens differs from those reported thus far for any other cellulosome system. 
12825514	20030627	Mycol._Res.	D003160 D016428 	Efficacy of microorganisms antagonistic to Rhizoctonia cerealis and their cell wall degrading enzymatic activities.	The effect of Trichoderma atroviride, T. harzianum, T. longibrachiatum, Clonostachys rosea and Bacillus subtilis isolates applied to wheat seeds against Rhizoctonia cerealis disease of seedlings was investigated under controlled greenhouse conditions. Most Trichoderma isolates significantly reduced the incidence of disease compared with the infected control. Bacillus subtilis was also effective against sharp eyespot, although less active than Trichoderma spp. Interactions between the antagonistic microorganisms and the cereal pathogenic fungus in dual culture experiments on agar growth medium were also studied. Almost all tested antagonists showed competitive activity against R. cerealis: inhibition of its mycelial growth and hyphal interaction. The production of extracellular beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase, chitin 1,4-beta-chitobiosidase, glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase and protease activity by the tested microorganisms in the presence of cell walls of R. cerealis was then determined. All isolates showed glucosaminidase and chitobiosidase activity. They also produced glucosidase activity, except B. subtilis, whereas only C. rosea, B. subtilis and one isolate of T. harzianum showed detectable levels of protease activity. 
17594485	20070628	BMC_Evol._Biol.	D016428 D052061 D013486 	Chitinase family GH18: evolutionary insights from the genomic history of a diverse protein family.	Chitinases (EC.3.2.1.14) hydrolyze the beta-1,4-linkages in chitin, an abundant N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosamine polysaccharide that is a structural component of protective biological matrices such as insect exoskeletons and fungal cell walls. The glycoside hydrolase 18 (GH18) family of chitinases is an ancient gene family widely expressed in archea, prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Mammals are not known to synthesize chitin or metabolize it as a nutrient, yet the human genome encodes eight GH18 family members. Some GH18 proteins lack an essential catalytic glutamic acid and are likely to act as lectins rather than as enzymes. This study used comparative genomic analysis to address the evolutionary history of the GH18 multiprotein family, from early eukaryotes to mammals, in an effort to understand the forces that shaped the human genome content of chitinase related proteins. Gene duplication and loss according to a birth-and-death model of evolution is a feature of the evolutionary history of the GH18 family. The current human family likely originated from ancient genes present at the time of the bilaterian expansion (approx. 550 mya). The family expanded in the chitinous protostomes C. elegans and D. melanogaster, declined in early deuterostomes as chitin synthesis disappeared, and expanded again in late deuterostomes with a significant increase in gene number after the avian/mammalian split. This comprehensive genomic study of animal GH18 proteins reveals three major phylogenetic groups in the family: chitobiases, chitinases/chitolectins, and stabilin-1 interacting chitolectins. Only the chitinase/chitolectin group is associated with expansion in late deuterostomes. Finding that the human GH18 gene family is closely linked to the human major histocompatibility complex paralogon on chromosome 1, together with the recent association of GH18 chitinase activity with Th2 cell inflammation, suggests that its late expansion could be related to an emerging interface of innate and adaptive immunity during early vertebrate history. 
12567244	20030205	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Regulation of extracellular chitinases and proteases in the entomopathogen and acaricide Metarhizium anisopliae.	Metarhizium anisopliae infects insects and ticks via a combination of specialized structures and cuticle degradation. Hydrolytic enzymes are accepted as key factors for the penetration step. The search for pathogenicity determinants has demonstrated that the process is multifactorial. Host specificity is an important factor to be addressed. The study of the enzymes produced during infection is important to discover those with a role in the process. To address some of the enzymes that take part during the infection of the tick, Boophilus microplus, we have analyzed the secretion of proteases and chitinases in single and combined carbon/nitrogen sources as compared with such complex substrates as chitin and B. microplus cuticles. Two chitinases, endo- and N-acetylglucosaminidases, and two proteases, subtilisin and trypsin-like proteases, were analyzed. Enzyme activities were detected in all carbon sources tested, but higher levels were found when combinations of carbon sources were used. A major 30-kDa protein apparently secreted during M. anisopliae growth on all carbon/nitrogen sources tested was demonstrated by SDS-PAGE. 
24054223	20130924	Food_Chem	D016428 D013485 	Effect of a Thermoascus aurantiacus thermostable enzyme cocktail on wheat bread qualitiy.	Thermophilic fungus Thermoascus aurantiacus (CBMAI 756) on solid-state fermentation using corncob as a nutrient source produces an enzyme pool with the potential to be used in bread making. In this paper, the use of this enzyme cocktail as a wheat bread improver was reported. Both products released by flour arabinoxylan degradation and bread quality were investigated. The main product released through enzyme activity after prolonged incubation was xylose indicating the presence of xylanase; however, a small amount of xylobiose and arabinose also confirmed the presence of xylosidase and α-l-arabinofuranosidase, respectively. Enzyme mixture "in vitro" mainly attacked water-unextractable arabinoxylan contributing to beneficial effect in bread making. The use of an optimal enzyme concentration (35U xylanase/100g of flour) increased specific volume (22%), reduced crumb firmness (25%), and reduced amylopectin retrogradation (17%) during bread storage. In conclusion, the enzyme cocktail produced by T. aurantiacus CBMAI 756 can improve wheat bread quality.  
16667843	19901101	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Extracellular beta-1,3-Glucanases in Stem Rust-Affected and Abiotically Stressed Wheat Leaves : Immunocytochemical Localization of the Enzyme and Detection of Multiple Forms in Gels by Activity Staining with Dye-Labeled Laminarin.	Endo-beta-1,3-glucanase activity in intercellular washing fluid (IWF) from leaves of wheat (Triticum aestivum) increased 10-fold 4 days after leaves were infected with the wheat stem rust fungus (Puccinia graminis f.sp. tritici), while exo-beta-1,3-glucanase activity remained unchanged at a low level. Heat and ethylene stress had no effect, whereas mercury treatment resulted in a 2-fold increase in endo-beta-1,3-glucanase activity. With a new method of activity staining using laminarin-Remazol brilliant blue as substrate in overlay gels, 18 electrophoretic forms of endo-beta-1,3-glucanase were detected in IWF from unstressed leaves and up to 24 forms in IWF from stem rust-infected leaves. Most of the increase in beta-1,3-glucanase activity and in the number of beta-1,3-glucanases after rust infection was due to a nonspecific, stress-related effect on the plant, but two major forms of the enzyme probably originated from the fungus. beta-1,3-Glucanase was localized cytochemically with anti-barley-beta-1,3-glucanase antibodies. With preembedding labeling, the enzyme was demonstrated on the outside of host and fungal cell walls. Postembedding labeling localized the enzyme in the host plasmalemma and in the domain of host cell walls adjoining the plasmalemma, throughout walls of intercellular hyphal cells and haustoria, in the fungal cytoplasm, and in the extrahaustorial matrix. Cross-reactivity of beta-1,3-glucanases from wheat and germinated uredospores of the rust fungus with the anti-barley-beta-1,3-glucanase antibodies was confirmed in dot blot assays and on Western blots. 
16368098	20051222	Int._J._Parasitol.	D016428 D013485 	EnP1 and EnP2, two proteins associated with the Encephalitozoon cuniculi endospore, the chitin-rich inner layer of the microsporidian spore wall.	Microsporidia are obligate intracellular parasites forming environmentally resistant spores that harbour a rigid cell wall. This wall comprises an outer layer or exospore and a chitin-rich inner layer or endospore. So far, only a chitin deacetylase-like protein has been shown to localize to the Encephalitozoon cuniculi endospore and either one or two proteins have been clearly assigned to the exospore in two Encephalitozoon species: SWP1 in E. cuniculi, SWP1 and SWP2 in Encephalitozoon intestinalis. Here, we report the identification of two new spore wall proteins in E. cuniculi, EnP1 and EnP2, the genes of which are both located on chromosome I (ECU01_0820 and ECU01_1270, respectively) and have no known homologue. Detected by immunoscreening of an E. cuniculi cDNA library, enp1 is characterized by small-sized 5' and 3' untranslated regions and is highly expressed throughout the whole intracellular cycle. The encoded basic 40 kDa antigen displays a high proportion of cysteine residues, arguing for a significant role of disulfide bridges in spore wall assembly. EnP2 is a 22 kDa serine-rich protein that is predicted to be O-glycosylated and glycosylated phosphatidyl inositol-anchored. Although having been identified by mass spectrometry of a dithiothreitol-soluble fraction, this protein contains only two cysteine residues. Mouse polyclonal antibodies were raised against EnP1 and EnP2 recombinant proteins produced in Escherichia coli Our immunolocalisation data indicate that EnP1 and EnP2 are targeted to the cell surface as early as the onset of sporogony and are finally associated with the chitin-rich layer of the wall in mature spores. 
2111445	19900601	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013487 	Mutations in cell division cycle genes CDC36 and CDC39 activate the Saccharomyces cerevisiae mating pheromone response pathway.	Conditional mutations in the genes CDC36 and CDC39 cause arrest in the G1 phase of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell cycle at the restrictive temperature. We present evidence that this arrest is a consequence of a mutational activation of the mating pheromone response. cdc36 and cdc39 mutants expressed pheromone-inducible genes in the absence of pheromone and conjugated in the absence of a mating pheromone receptor. On the other hand, cells lacking the G beta subunit or overproducing the G alpha subunit of the transducing G protein that couples the receptor to the pheromone response pathway prevented constitutive activation of the pathway in cdc36 and cdc39 mutants. These epistasis relationships imply that the CDC36 and CDC39 gene products act at the level of the transducing G protein. The CDC36 and CDC39 gene products have a role in cellular processes other than the mating pheromone response. A mating-type heterozygous diploid cell, homozygous for either the cdc36 or cdc39 mutation, does not exhibit the G1 arrest phenotype but arrests asynchronously with respect to the cell cycle. A similar asynchronous arrest was observed in cdc36 and cdc39 cells where the pheromone response pathway had been inactivated by mutations in the transducing G protein. Furthermore, cdc36 and cdc39 mutants, when grown on carbon catabolite-derepressing medium, did not arrest in G1 and did not induce pheromone-specific genes at the restrictive temperature. 
22185468	20111222	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	A zinc-finger-family transcription factor, AbVf19, is required for the induction of a gene subset important for virulence in Alternaria brassicicola.	Alternaria brassicicola is a successful saprophyte and necrotrophic plant pathogen with a broad host range within the family Brassicaceae. It produces secondary metabolites that marginally affect virulence. Cell wall-degrading enzymes (CDWE) have been considered important for pathogenesis but none of them individually have been identified as significant virulence factors in A. brassicicola. In this study, knockout mutants of a gene, AbVf19, were created and produced considerably smaller lesions than the wild type on inoculated host plants. The presence of tandem zinc-finger domains in the predicted amino acid sequence and nuclear localization of AbVf19-reporter protein suggested that it was a transcription factor. Gene expression comparisons using RNA-seq identified 74 genes being downregulated in the mutant during a late stage of infection. Among the 74 downregulated genes, 28 were putative CWDE genes. These were hydrolytic enzyme genes that composed a small fraction of genes within each family of cellulases, pectinases, cutinases, and proteinases. The mutants grew slower than the wild type on an axenic medium with pectin as a major carbon source. This study demonstrated the existence and the importance of a transcription factor that regulates a suite of genes that are important for decomposing and utilizing plant material during the late stage of plant infection. 
22328249	20120214	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of cellulolytic extract from Pycnoporus sanguineus PF-2 and its application in biomass saccharification.	The aim of this work was to evaluate the biochemical features of the white-rot fungi Pycnoporus sanguineus cellulolytic complex and its utilization to sugarcane bagasse hydrolysis. When cultivated under submerged fermentation using corn cobs as carbon source, P. sanguineus produced high FPase, endoglucanase, β-glucosidase, xylanase, mannanase, α-galactosidase, α-arabinofuranosidase, and polygalacturonase activities. Cellulase activities were characterized in relation to pH and temperature. β-Glucosidase and FPase activities were higher at 55 °C, pH 4.5, and endoglucanase activity was higher at 60 °C, in a pH range of 3.5-4.0. All cellulase activities were highly stable at 40 and 50 °C through 48 h of pre-incubation. Crude enzymatic extract from P. sanguineus was applied in a saccharification experiment using acid-treated and alkali-treated sugarcane bagasse as substrate, and the hydrolysis yields were compared to that obtained by a commercial cellulase preparation. Reducing sugar yields of 60.4% and 64.0% were reached when alkali-treated bagasse was hydrolyzed by P. sanguineus extract and commercial cellulase, respectively. Considering the glucose production, it was observed that P. sanguineus extract and commercial cellulase ensured yields of 22.6% and 36.5%, respectively. The saccharification of acid-treated bagasse was lower than that of alkali-treated bagasse regardless of the cellulolytic extract. The present work showed that P. sanguineus has a great potential as an enzyme producer for biomass saccharification. 
22805941	20120719	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and characterisation of aerobic endospore forming Bacilli from sugarcane rhizosphere for the selection of strains with agriculture potentialities.	Eighteen aerobic endospore forming strains were isolated from sugarcane rhizosphere in N-free medium. A phenotypic description and analysis of the 5' end hypervariable region sequences of 16S rRNA revealed a high diversity of Bacillus and related genera. Isolates were identified, and four genera were obtained: seven strains belonged to Bacillus (Bacillaceae family), four belonged to Paenibacillus, six belonged to Brevibacillus and one strain was identified as Cohnella (Paenibacillaceae family). Four Brevibacillus strains showed in vitro inhibitory activity against plant pathogens fungi Curvularia and Fusarium. Seventy-four percent of the isolated bacteria grew on pectin as the only carbon source, showing polygalacturonase activity. Pectate lyase activity was detected for the first time in a Brevibacillus genus strain. All isolates showed endoglucanase activity. Calcium phosphate solubilisation was positive in 83.3% of the isolates, with higher values than those reported for Bacillus inorganic phosphate solubilising strains. High ethylene plant hormone secretion in the culture medium was detected in 22% of the bacteria. This is the first report of ethylene secretion in Paenibacillaceae isolates. Indole-3-acetic acid production was found in a Brevibacillus genus isolate. It was reported for the first time the presence of Cohnella genus strain on sugarcane rhizosphere bearing plant growth promoting traits. The sugarcane isolate Brevibacillus B65 was identified as a plant growth inoculant because it showed wider spectra of plant stimulation capabilities, including an antifungal effect, extracellular hydrolases secretion, inorganic phosphate solubilisation and plant hormone liberation. In this work, sugarcane was shown to be a suitable niche for finding aerobic endospore forming 'Bacilli' with agriculture biotechnological purposes. 
19719847	20090902	BMC_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of two GH18 chitinase family genes and their use as targets for detection of the crayfish-plague oomycete Aphanomyces astaci.	The oomycete Aphanomyces astaci is regarded as the causative agent of crayfish plague and represents an evident hazard for European crayfish species. Native crayfish populations infected with this pathogen suffer up to 100% mortality. The existence of multiple transmission paths necessitates the development of a reliable, robust and efficient test to detect the pathogen. Currently, A. astaci is diagnosed by a PCR-based assay that suffers from cross-reactivity to other species. We developed an alternative closed-tube assay for A. astaci, which achieves robustness through simultaneous amplification of multiple functionally constrained genes. Two novel constitutively expressed members of the glycosyl hydrolase (GH18) gene family of chitinases were isolated from the A. astaci strain Gb04. The primary amino acid sequence of these chitinase genes, termed CHI2 and CHI3, is composed of an N-terminal signal peptide directing the post-translational transport of the protein into the extracellular space, the catalytic GH18 domain, a proline-, serine-, and threonine-rich domain and a C-terminal cysteine-rich putative chitin-binding site. The A. astaci mycelium grown in a pepton-glucose medium showed significant temporal changes in steady-state CHI2 and CHI3 mRNA amounts indicating functional constraint. Their different temporal occurrence with maxima at 48 and 24 hours of incubation for CHI2 and CHI3, respectively, is in accordance with the multifunctionality of GH18 family members. To identify A. astaci-specific primer target sites in these novel genes, we determined the partial sequence homologs in the related oomycetes A. frigidophilus, A. invadans, A. helicoides, A. laevis, A. repetans, Achlya racemosa, Leptolegnia caudata, and Saprolegnia parasitica, as well as in the relevant fungi Fusarium solani and Trichosporon cutaneum. An A. astaci-specific primer pair targeting the novel genes CHI2 and CHI3 as well as CHI1 - a third GH18 family member - was multiplexed with primers targeting the 5.8S rRNA used as an endogenous control. A species was typed unambiguously as A. astaci if two peaks were concomitantly detected by melting curve analysis (MCA). For sensitive detection of the pathogen, but also for quantification of agent levels in susceptible crayfish and carrier crayfish, a TaqMan-probe based real-time PCR (qPCR) assay was developed. It targets the same chitinase genes and allows quantification down to 25 target sequences. The simultaneous qualitative detection of multiple sequences by qPCR/MCA represents a promising approach to detect species with elevated levels of genetic variation and/or limited available sequence information. The homogenous closed-tube format, reduced detection time, higher specificity, and the considerably reduced chance of false negative detection achieved by targeting multiple genes (CHI1, CHI2, CHI3, and the endogenous control) at least two of which are subject to high functional constraint, are the major advantages of this multiplex assay compared to other diagnostic methods. Sensitive quantification achieved with TaqMan qPCR facilitates to monitor infection status and pathogen distribution in different tissues and can help prevent disease transmission. 
15115178	20040430	Protein_J.	D016428 D013485 	Physical and kinetic properties of the family 3 beta-glucosidase from Aspergillus niger which is important for cellulose breakdown.	A beta-glucosidase (BGS) purified from Aspergillus niger cellulase powder (obtained from Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) was characterized. Electrophoresis, size exclusion chromatography, and dynamic light scattering indicated that the enzyme is a dimer of approximately 200 kDa. Five of the seven N-glycosylated oligosaccharides attached to BGS were composed of D-mannoses attached to a beta(1-4)-N-acetyl-glucosamine-beta-(1-4)-fucose-alpha-(1-6)-N-acetylglucosamine core. The other two were similar, but the cores of these did not have the D-fucose. The enzyme is a retaining glycosidase, and it also has a distinct preference for the beta-configuration at the reducing end of cellobiose. BGS is thermostable up to 65 degrees C but is sensitive to freezing and thawing. The extinction coefficient of BGS was found to be 1.8 cm(-1) mg(-1). All substrates assayed resulted in Eadie-Hofstee plots that were curved at high substrate concentrations. TLC of the reaction products showed that the substrates themselves act as acceptors when present at high concentrations. The transglucosidic activity rate is different from the hydrolytic activity rate and this causes the curvature at high substrate concentrations. The enzyme produces gentiobiose when D-glucose is the acceptor. pH optima of the Vmax(h) with pNPGlc, oNPGlc, and cellobiose were between pH 4 and 4.5, and the Km values decreased at pH values between 3 and 5. Inhibition experiments indicated that the enzyme is specific for glucosyl substrates and suggested that D-gluconolactone is a transition state analog. Studies with cello-oligosaccharides and 3,4-dinitrophenyl-cellobiose showed that BGS is an exo-hydrolase having at least five glucose subsites and that it cleaves from the nonreducing end. The properties of a family 3 beta-glucosidase (BG3) sequenced by Dan et al. [Dan, S., Marton, I., Dekel, M., Bravdo, B-A., He, S., Withers, S. G., and Shoseyov, O. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275: 4973-4980] was also studied and was shown to have very similar properties to those of BGS. Sequence analysis of a portion of BGS verified that these are the same enzymes. 
23334918	20130122	J._Mol._Recognit.	D016428 D013485 	Protein stabilization with a dipeptide-mimic triazine-scaffolded synthetic affinity ligand.	Protein stabilization was achieved by a novel approach based on the adsorption and establishment of affinity-like interactions with a biomimetic triazine-scaffolded ligand. A synthetic lead compound (ligand 3'/11, K(a) ≈ 10(4) M(-1)) was selected from a previously screened solid-phase library of affinity ligands for studies of adsorption and stabilization of cutinase from Fusarium solani pisi used as a model system. This ligand, directly synthesized in agarose by a well-established solid-phase synthesis method, was able to strongly bind cutinase and led to impressive half-lives of more than 8 h at 70 °C, and of approximately 34 h at 60 °C for bound protein (a 25- and 57-fold increase as compared with the free enzyme, respectively). The ligand density in the solid matrix was found to be a determinant parameter for cutinase stabilization. It is conceivable that the highly stabilizing effect observed results from the binding of more than one ligand residue to the enzyme, creating specific macromolecular configurations that lock structural mobility thus improving molecular stability. 
22359214	20120224	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a neutral pectin lyase produced by Oidiodendron echinulatum MTCC 1356 in solid state fermentation.	A neutral pectin lyase produced by a new fungal strain Oidiodendron echinulatum MTCC 1356 under solid state fermentation using wheat bran as agro waste has been studied. The enzyme was purified by ammonium sulphate precipitation (30-60%), DEAE anion exchange and Sephadex G-100 column chromatographies. The SDS-PAGE and native PAGE revealed two bands of sizes 42 and 47 kDa. The enzyme was purified 37 fold with specific activity of 4.5 U/mg and 2.25% yield. The K(m) and V(max) values determined using citrus pectin were 1.2 mg/ml and 0.36 IU/min respectively. The pH and temperature optima were pH 7.0 and 50 °C, respectively. The pH stability was around 5.0 for 24 h at 20 °C. The purified enzyme retained maximum activity for 30 min upto 50 °C. The activation energy for thermal denaturation of the purified enzyme was found to be 60.0 kJ/Mol. The effects of various metal ions and protein inhibitors on enzyme activity have revealed total inhibition of the enzyme activity in the presence of Ag(+) and Cu(+) and KMnO(4) at 1 mM. The neutral pectin lyase showed retting of Crotalaria juncea fibre in the presence of EDTA. 
7529169	19940701	Electrophoresis	D016428 	Detection of exo-beta-1,3-glucanase activity in polyacrylamide gels after electrophoresis under denaturing or nondenaturing conditions.	A method for the visualization of exo-beta-1,3-glucanase activity in polyacrylamide gels is presented. The procedure consists of the enzyme reaction in the gel with the substrate alpha-naphthylglucopyranoside, and a subsequent staining of the obtained alpha-naphthol with dyes Fast Red B, or Fast Blue BB, respectively. A mixture of exoglucanases produced by the fungus Polyporus squamosus was used for the optimization of the method. The procedure is applicable for the standard Laemmli discontinuous electrophoresis system, even in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate, as well as for electrophoresis in linear gradients of the polyacrylamide concentration. The staining method was used for the analysis of exoglucanases secreted by several yeast genera. All yeasts tested produced two types of exoglucanases, a high molecular mass species heterogeneous in size, and one or two smaller homogeneous enzymes. 
8892847	19961101	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Cell wall synthesis is a major target of mycoparasitic antagonism by Trichoderma harzianum.	We have investigated the molecular basis for the reported synergism between peptaibols and cell wall hydrolytic enzymes in the antagonism of phytopathogenic fungi by Trichoderma harzianum. beta-Glucan synthase activity on isolated plasma membranes of Botrytis cinerea was inhibited in vitro by the peptaibols trichorzianin TA and TB, and this inhibition was reversed by the addition of phosphatidylcholine. beta-Glucan synthesis in vivo, assayed by the incorporation of [2-(3)H]glucose into cell wall material, was inhibited by the presence of peptaibols, and this inhibition was synergistic with exogenously added T. harzianum beta-1,3-glucanase. This synergism is therefore explained by an inhibition of the membrane-bound beta-1,3-glucan synthase of the host by the peptaibols, which inhibit the resynthesis of cell wall beta-glucans, sustain the disruptive action of beta-glucanases, and all together enhance the fungicidal activity. Therefore, we have identified cell wall turnover as a major target of mycoparasitic antagonism. 
21273336	20110129	J._Exp._Bot.	D016428 D013485 	Demethylation of oligogalacturonides by FaPE1 in the fruits of the wild strawberry Fragaria vesca triggers metabolic and transcriptional changes associated with defence and development of the fruit.	Ectopic expression of the strawberry (Fragaria×ananassa) gene FaPE1 encoding pectin methyl esterase produced in the wild species Fragaria vesca partially demethylated oligogalacturonides (OGAs), which conferred partial resistance of ripe fruits to the fungus Botrytis cinerea. Analyses of metabolic and transcriptional changes in the receptacle of the transgenic fruits revealed channelling of metabolites to aspartate and aromatic amino acids as well as phenolics, flavanones, and sesquiterpenoids, which was in parallel with the increased expression of some genes related to plant defence. The results illustrate the changes associated with resistance to B. cinerea in the transgenic F. vesca. These changes were accompanied by a significant decrease in the auxin content of the receptacle of the ripe fruits of transgenic F. vesca, and enhanced expression of some auxin-repressed genes. The role of these OGAs in fruit development was revealed by the larger size of the ripe fruits in transgenic F. vesca. When taken together these results show that in cultivated F. ananassa FaPE1 participates in the de-esterification of pectins and the generation of partially demethylated OGAs, which might reinforce the plant defence system and play an active role in fruit development. 
7704528	19941215	Structure	D016428 	Crystal structures of hevamine, a plant defence protein with chitinase and lysozyme activity, and its complex with an inhibitor.	Hevamine is a member of one of several families of plant chitinases and lysozymes that are important for plant defence against pathogenic bacteria and fungi. The enzyme can hydrolyze the linear polysaccharide chains of chitin and peptidoglycan. A full understanding of the structure/function relationships of chitinases might facilitate the production of transgenic plants with increased resistance towards a wide range of pathogens. The crystal structure of hevamine has been determined to a resolution of 2.2 A, and refined to an R-factor of 0.169. The enzyme possesses a (beta alpha)8-barrel fold. An inhibitor binding study shows that the substrate-binding cleft is located at the carboxy-terminal end of the beta-barrel, near the conserved Glu127. Glu127 is in a position to act as the catalytic proton donor, but no residue that might stabilize a positively charged oxocarbonium ion intermediate was found. A likely mechanism of substrate hydrolysis is by direct attack of a water molecule on the C1 atom of the scissile bond, resulting in inversion of the configuration at C1. The structure of hevamine shows a completely new lysozyme/chitinase fold and represents a new class of polysaccharide-hydrolyzing (beta alpha)8-barrel enzymes. Because the residues conserved in the family to which hevamine belongs are important for maintaining the structure of the (beta alpha)8-barrel, all members of the family, including fungal, bacterial and insect chitinases, are likely to share this architecture. The crystal structure obtained provides a basis for protein engineering studies in this family of chitinases. 
23406586	20130215	Am_J_Rhinol_Allergy	D016428 	Effect of Onchocerca volvulus chitinase on MUC5B expression in human airway epithelial cells.	Chitin is an essential structural component of the wall of fungal cells and is present in the exoskeleton of arthropods. It has been generally assumed that mammals lack the ability to produce chitinase proteins, the enzymes responsible for chitin degradation.  However, recent studies have indicated that mammals produce chitinases and chitinase-like proteins, and chitinase plays a potential role in human asthma and allergic inflammation. In this study, the effect and brief signaling pathway of chitinase on MUC5B expression were investigated in human  airway epithelial cells. In the mucin-producing human NCI-H292 airway epithelial cells and the primary cultures of normal nasal epithelial cells, the effect and signaling pathway of chitinase on MUC5B expression were investigated using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase  chain reaction (RT-PCR), real-time PCR, enzyme immunoassay, and immunoblot analysis with several specific inhibitors and small interfering RNA (siRNA). In the mucin-producing human NCI-H292 airway epithelial cells, chitinase increased MUC5B expression. Chitinase  significantly activated the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) but not the phosphorylation of extracellular signa-l-related kinase (ERK) 1/2. The SB203580 (p38 MAPK inhibitor) significantly attenuated chitinase-induced MUC5B mRNA expression, but U0126 (ERK1/2 inhibitor)  did not. Knockdown of p38 MAPK by p38 MAPK siRNA significantly blocked chitinase-induced MUC5B expression. In the primary cultures of normal nasal epithelial cells, chitinase significantly increased MUC5B gene expression and this was significantly attenuated after pretreatment with SB203580. These results suggest that chitinase induces MUC5B expression by activation of the p38 MAPK signaling pathway in human airway epithelial cells. 
9056481	19970301	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Overexpression and characterization of Aspergillus awamori wild-type and mutant glucoamylase secreted by the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris: comparison with wild-type recombinant glucoamylase produced using Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Aspergillus niger as hosts.	Glucoamylase from Aspergillus niger (identical to Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase) is an industrially important, multidomain N- and O-glycosylated starch-hydrolase. To produce protein-engineered glucoamylase, heterologous expression is established in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. Using the vector pHIL-D2, the cDNA encoding A. awamori glucoamylase is inserted in the yeast genome downstream of the 5' AOX1 promoter to replace the AOX1 gene. Induction by 0.75% methanol for 48 h led to synthesis of secreted glucoamylase to give around 0.4 g/liter, as directed by the A. awamori signal sequence. Recombinant glucoamylase produced in P. pastoris, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or A. niger displayed similar catalytic properties, thiol content, and isoelectric point. Glucoamylase from P. pastoris, however, has higher thermostability than the enzymes from S. cerevisiae, A. niger, or a commercial preparation of A. niger glucoamylase. The average Mr determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry of these enzymes is thus 82,327, 83,869, 82,839, and 80,370, respectively, and neutral sugar analysis shows the differences to be due to variation in the extent of glycosylation. Compared to wild-type, single-residue mutation generally reduced the amount of secreted glucoamylase in S. cerevisiae and A. niger. In P. pastoris, however, the Cys320 --> Ala/Glu400 --> Cys double mutant is produced at 0.3 g/liter, or 75% of wild-type glucoamylase, while the corresponding single mutants have been produced at l and 20% of the wild-type level in S. cerevisiae and A. niger, respectively. 
1611557	19920401	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Changes in selected enzyme activities during growth of pure and mixed cultures of the white-rot decay fungus Trametes versicolor and the potential biocontrol fungus Trichoderma harzianum.	Two filamentous fungi, the white-rot fungus Trametes versicolor and the soil fungus and potential biocontrol organism Trichoderma harzianum, have been grown in pure and mixed cultures on low-N (0.4 mM) and high-N (4 mM) defined synthetic media to determine the activities of selected wood-degrading enzymes such as cellobiase, cellulase, laccase, and peroxidases. Growth characteristics and enzyme activities were examined for potential correlations. Such correlations would allow the use of simple enzyme assays for measuring biomass development and would facilitate predictions about competitiveness of species in mixed fungal cultures. Our results show that while laccase and Poly Red-478 peroxidase activities indicate survival of the decay fungus, none of the monitored extracellular enzymes can serve as a quantitative indicator for biomass accumulation. As expected, the level of available nitrogen affected the production of the enzymes monitored: in low-N media, specific cellobiase, specific cellulase, and peroxidase activities were enhanced, while laccase activities were reduced. Most importantly, laccase activities of Trametes versicolor, and to a smaller extent, cellobiase activities of both fungi, were significantly induced in mixed cultures of Trametes versicolor and Trichoderma harzianum. 
23540930	20130402	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Screening of microbes for novel acidic cutinases and cloning and expression of an acidic cutinase from Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88.	Isolates from gardening waste compost and 38 culture collection microbes were grown on agar plates at pH 4.0 with the cutinase model substrate polycaprolactone as a carbon source. The strains showing polycaprolactone hydrolysis were cultivated in liquid at acidic pH and the cultivations were monitored by assaying the p-nitrophenyl butyrate esterase activities. Culture supernatants of four strains were analyzed for the hydrolysis of tritiated apple cutin at different pHs. Highest amounts of radioactive hydrolysis products were detected at pHs below 5. The hydrolysis of apple cutin by the culture supernatants at acidic pH was further confirmed by GC-MS analysis of the hydrolysis products. On the basis of screening, the acidic cutinase from Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88 was chosen for heterogeneous production in Pichia pastoris and for analysis of the effects of pH on activity and stability. The recombinant enzyme showed activity over a broad range of pHs with maximal activity between pH 5.0 and 6.5. Activity could be detected still at pH 3.5. 
22516249	20120421	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Fungal pretreatment of cornstalk with Phanerochaete chrysosporium for enhancing enzymatic saccharification and hydrogen production.	The feasibility of fungal pretreatment of cornstalk with Phanerochaete chrysosporium for enzymatic saccharification and H(2) production was investigated in this study. Firstly, cornstalk was pretreated with P. chrysosporium at 29 °C under static condition for 15 d, lignin reduction was up to 34.3% with holocellulose loss less than 10%. Microscopic structure observation combined FTIR analysis further demonstrated that the lignin and crystallinity were decreased. Subsequently, the fungal-pretreated cornstalk was subjected to enzymatic hydrolysis by the crude cellulase from Trichoderma viride to produce fermentable sugars which were then fermented to bio-H(2) using Thermoanaerobacterium thermosaccharolyticum W16. The maximum enzymatic saccharification was found to be 47.3% which was 20.3% higher than the control without pretreatment. Upon fermentation of enzymatic hydrolysate, the yield of H(2) was calculated to be 80.3 ml/g-pretreated cornstalk. The present results suggested the potential of using hydrogen-producing bacteria for high-yield conversion of cornstalk into bio-H(2) integrate with biological pretreatment and enzymatic saccharification. 
23606673	20130423	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Chitinolytic enzymes: an appraisal as a product of commercial potential.	Chitin, its deacetylated form, chitosan and chitinolytic enzymes viz. endo-chitinase, N-acetylglucosaminidase, chitosanase, chitin deacetylase (CDA) are gaining importance for their biotechnological applications. Presently, chitin degrading enzymes constitute high-cost low-volume products in human health care and associated research. Indeed chitinases and CDA-chitosanase complex possesss tremendous potential in agriculture to control plant pathogenic fungi and insects. The success in exploring chitinases especially for agriculture, i.e. as a high-volume low-cost product, depends on the availability of highly active preparations with a reasonable cost. Therefore, a reconsideration in terms of understanding the roles of chitinolytic enzymes in applications, e.g. host-pathogen interaction for biocontrol, different mechanisms of chitin degradation, and identification of new enzymes with varying specificities, may make them more useful in a variety of commercial processes in the near future. The possible issues and challenges encountered in the translation of proof of concept into a commercial product will be appraised in this review. 
16914364	20060818	Int._J._Biochem._Cell_Biol.	D016428 	A cDNA cloned from Physarum polycephalum encodes new type of family 3 beta-glucosidase that is a fusion protein containing a calx-beta motif.	The microplasmodia of Physarum polycephalum express three types of beta-glucosidases: secretory enzyme, a soluble cytoplasmic enzyme and a membrane-bound enzyme. We are interested in the physiological role of three enzymes. We report the sequence of cDNA for membrane beta-glucosidase 1, which consists of 3825 nucleotides that includes an open reading frame encoding 1248 amino acids. The molecular weight of membrane beta-glucosidase 1 was calculated to be 131,843 based on the predicted amino acid composition. Glycosyl hydrolase family 3 N-terminal and C-terminal domains were found within the N-terminal half of the membrane beta-glucosidase 1 sequence and were highly homologous with the primary structures of fungal beta-glucosidases. Notably, the C-terminal half of membrane beta-glucosidase 1 contains two calx-beta motifs, which are known to be Ca(2+) binding domains in the Drosophila Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger; an RGD sequence, which is known to be a cell attachment sequence; and a transmembrane region. In this way, Physarum membrane beta-glucosidase 1 differs from all previously identified family 3 beta-glucosidases. In addition to cDNA for membrane beta-glucosidase 1, two other distinctly different mRNAs were also isolated. Two sequences were largely identical to cDNA for membrane beta-glucosidase 1, but included a long insert sequence having a stop codon, leading to truncation of their products, which could account for other beta-glucosidase forms occurred in Physarum poycephalum. Thus, the membrane beta-glucosidase is a new type family 3 enzyme fused with the Calx-beta domain. We propose that Calx-beta domain may modulate the beta-glucosidase activity in response to changes in the Ca(2+) concentration. 
8276795	19940107	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Construction, expression, and activity of a bivalent bispecific single-chain antibody.	This report describes the design, construction, and expression of a bivalent bispecific single-chain antibody (SCA) protein in Escherichia coli. The bispecificity of the bivalent protein was based on two previously constructed monovalent single-chain antibody molecules possessing distinct specificities, SCA 4-4-20 (anti-fluorescein) and SCA 04-01 (anti-single-stranded DNA). A flexible linker, modeled after a secreted fungal cellulase protein, was incorporated as the interdomain linker covalently joining the two active sites. Bivalent bispecific SCA protein that accumulated in bacteria as insoluble inclusion bodies was harvested, denatured, refolded, and affinity-purified in vitro. Affinity-purified bivalent bispecific SCA showed nearly identical ligand binding properties at each site relative to the individual monovalent single-chain antibody prototype molecules. In both solid and solution phase binding assays, the bivalent bispecific single-chain antibody simultaneously bound both ligands (fluorescein and (dT)6). Construction of a model bivalent bispecific molecule provides a foundation for future assembly of similar molecules designed to identify parameters involved in enhanced binding of antibodies due to avidity and dual specificity. 
6788099	19810201	Biokhimiia	D004740 D016428 	[Comparative role of exo-1,4-beta-glucosidase and cellobiase in the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose].	An inhibitory action of glucono-delta-lactone on individual components of cellulase complexes from Trichoderma reesei, T. longibrachiatum, T. lignorum and Aspergillus foetidus has been studied. It was shown that gluconolactone exerts an inhibiting effect on cellobiases only (the inhibition constants varied within the range of 0.03-0.1 mM) and does not influence the activities of endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases and exoglucosidases of the complexes. This formed a basis for a new method for determination of the exoglucosidase activity in a mixture with other components of the cellulase complexes. The complete and selective inhibition of cellobiases by gluconolactone with exoglucosidases activity being intact allowed to evaluate the relative contribution of these enzymes in glucose formation in the course of enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose (CM-cellulose, filter paper and Avicel). It was found that for most of the cellulase complexes studied the crucial role in glucose formation both from soluble and insoluble cellulose at early steps of hydrolysis belongs to exoglucosidase. On the other hand, the role of exoglucosidase (comparatively with cellobiase) progressively decreases in the course of cellulose hydrolysis. The latter effect does not presumably reflect the changes in the mechanism of cellulose conversion in the course of hydrolysis, but is due to a specific kinetic behaviour of the multienzyme cellulase system. 
8057839	19940401	Mol._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Regulation of transcription of the cel1 gene in Agaricus bisporus.	Northern analysis showed that accumulation of Agaricus bisporus cel1 mRNA was regulated by two independent mechanisms: (i) induction by cellulose; and (ii) repression by glucose and other sugars. Isolated A. bisporus nuclei were transcriptionally active. Nuclei isolated from cellulose-grown mycelium synthesized six times more cel1 mRNA than nuclei from glucose-grown mycelium. The start point of transcription (tsp) was identified by primer extension and S1 nuclease analysis. Putative glucose-, and cAMP-responsive elements as well as regions with homology to promoter regions of other fungal cellulase genes were detected both upstream and downstream from the tsp of the cel1 gene. 
11417392	20010622	Boll_Chim_Farm	D016428 	Synthesis of 1,2,4-triazino[5,6-b] indoles bearing 1,2,4-triazine moiety.	Some new 3-(5,6-Diphenyl-1,2,4-triazin-3-yl)-5-substituted- 1,2,4-triazino[5,6-b]indole derivatives (6-12) have been obtained via treatment of both (4 and 5) with p-nitro-benzoyl chloride, ammonium thiocyante, formaldehyde-methanol, acrylonitrile and thiosemi-carbazide. The former structure of the new products was established by the help of elemental analyses, as well as spectral data. Some of their showed pronounced effect on the Cellobiase produced by Thermomyces lanuginosus and Chaetomium thermophilum. 
1044284	19760101	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Kinetic studies of alpha-galactosidase-containing mold pellets on PNPG hydrolysis.	Little is known about techniques for applying untreated microbial cells containing enzymes directly to industrial processes as a biocatalyst. The kinetic behavior of alpha-galactosidase-containing spherical pellets which are formed naturally under given conditions in a submerged culture of Mortierella vinacea was studied on the hydrolysis of PNPG (p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside). The effect on intraparticle diffusion on the overall reaction rate was assessed by the use of an effectiveness factor, which was calculated by the approximate solution to the equation derived from the mass balance within a pellet. The experimental effectiveness factors were found to be represented as a single function of the modified Thiele modulus, including such parameters as pellet size, enzyme concentration in the pellet, and substrate concentration. As the diffusional effect became more significant, the marked substrate inhibition as seen for a free enzyme disappeared gradually. The effect of product inhibition on the pellets was much weaker than that for a free enzyme at a given substrate concentration. In the region of diffusion controlled reaction, it was found that the rate is proportional to the square root of the enzyme concentration in the pellet. In addition, similarly to what was reported previously for a free enzyme,the reaction in a batch system was found to be approximately representable as simple first-order kinetics in which the rate constant was dependent on the initial substrate concentration. 
19597315	20090715	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Plant cell wall degradation with a powerful Fusarium graminearum enzymatic arsenal.	The complex enzyme pool secreted by the phytopathogenic fungus Fusarium graminearum in response to glucose or hop cell wall material as sole carbon sources was analyzed. The biochemical characterization of the enzymes present in the supernatant of fungal cultures in the glucose medium revealed only 5 different glycosyl hydrolase activities; by contrast, when analyzing cultures in the cell wall medium, 17 different activities were detected. This dramatic increase reflects the adaptation of the fungus by the synthesis of enzymes targeting all layers of the cell wall. When the enzymes secreted in the presence of plant cell wall were used to hydrolyze pretreated crude plant material, high levels of monosaccharides were measured with yields approaching 50% of total sugars released by an acid hydrolysis process. This report is the first biochemical characterization of numerous cellulases, hemicellulases, and pectinases secreted by F. graminearum and demonstrates the usefulness of the described protein cocktail for efficient enzymatic degradation of plant cell wall. 
18847207	20081014	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic treatment to improve extraction of capsaicinoids and carotenoids from chili (Capsicum annuum) fruits.	Enzymatic treatments using noncommercial enzymes as a means to the improve the extraction of carotenoids and capsaicinoids from chili fruits are explored in this study. The results show that it is possible to obtain chili fruit powder with a higher concentration of both capsaicinoids and carotenoids than previously reported for similar processes. Furthermore, extraction yields above 96% for carotenoids and 85% for capsaicinoids as separate fractions can be achieved using a sequential and selective two-stage extraction. Evidence is presented demonstrating that the content and extraction yield depend directly on the extent of the enzymatic hydrolysis of chili cell walls, and higher yields are obtained when the sample is completely hydrolyzed. The enzymatic treatment described here is a promising alternative to current industrial practices, and it improves the extraction of carotenoids and capsaicinoids from chili fruits. 
12007616	20020515	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Kinetic parameters and mode of action of the cellobiohydrolases produced by Talaromyces emersonii.	Three forms of cellobiohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.91), CBH IA, CBH IB and CBH II, were isolated to apparent homogeneity from culture filtrates of the aerobic fungus Talaromyces emersonii. The three enzymes are single sub-unit glycoproteins, and unlike most other fungal cellobiohydrolases are characterised by noteworthy thermostability. The kinetic properties and mode of action of each enzyme against polymeric and small soluble oligomeric substrates were investigated in detail. CBH IA, CBH IB and CBH II catalyse the hydrolysis of microcrystalline cellulose, albeit to varying extents. Hydrolysis of a soluble cellulose derivative (CMC) and barley 1,3;1,4-beta-D-glucan was not observed. Cellobiose (G2) is the main reaction product released by CBH IA, CBH IB, and CBH II from microcrystalline cellulose. All three CBHs are competitively inhibited by G2; inhibition constant values (K(i)) of 2.5 and 0.18 mM were obtained for CBH IA and CBH IB, respectively (4-nitrophenyl-beta-cellobioside as substrate), while a K(i) of 0.16 mM was determined for CBH II (2-chloro-4-nitrophenyl-beta-cellotrioside as substrate). Bond cleavage patterns were determined for each CBH on 4-methylumbelliferyl derivatives of beta-cellobioside and beta-cellotrioside (MeUmbG(n)). While the Tal. emersonii CBHs share certain properties with their counterparts from Trichoderma reesei, Humicola insolens and other fungal sources, distinct differences were noted. 
11989765	20020507	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of a glucoamylase secreted by the plant pathogen Scierotinia sclerotiorum.	Among the lytic enzymes secreted by the phytopathogen fungus Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, a starch-degrading enzyme has been isolated and characterized. This glycoprotein of 72 kDa is composed of several isoforms ranging from pI 4.8 to 5.4. The enzymatic parameters have been determined. Specificity studies together with the analysis of the reaction products show that it is an alpha-1,4-glucanohydrolase. This result is also corroborated by the analysis of the N-terminal and two inner amino acids sequences that are very similar to fungal glucoamylase genes or enzymes so far sequenced. 
22210619	20120103	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Chitinolytic and chitosanolytic activities from crude cellulase extract produced by A. niger grown on apple pomace through Koji fermentation.	Enzyme extracts of cellulase [filter paper cellulase (FPase) and carboxymethyl cellulase (CMCase)], chitinase, and chitosanase produced by Aspergillus niger NRRL-567 were evaluated. The interactive effects of initial moisture and different inducers for FP cellulase and CMCase production were optimized using response surface methodology. Higher enzyme activities [FPase 79.24+/- 4.22 IU/gram fermented substrate (gfs) and CMCase 124.04+/-7.78 IU/gfs] were achieved after 48 h fermentation in solid-state medium containing apple pomace supplemented with rice husk [1&percnt; (w/w)] under optimized conditions [pH 4.5, moisture 55% (v/w), and inducers veratryl alcohol (2 mM/kg), copper sulfate (1.5 mM/kg), and lactose 2% (w/w)] (p<0.05). Koji fermentation in trays was carried out and higher enzyme activities (FPase 96.67+/-4.18 IU/gfs and CMCase 146.50+/-11.92 IU/gfs) were achieved. The nonspecific chitinase and chitosanase activities of cellulase enzyme extract were analyzed using chitin and chitosan substrates with different physicochemical characteristics, such as degree of deacetylation, molecular weight, and viscosity. Higher chitinase and chitosanase activities of 70.28+/-3.34 IU/gfs and 60.18+/-3.82 to 64.20+/-4.12 IU/gfs, respectively, were achieved. Moreover, the enzyme was stable and retained 92-94% activity even after one month. Cellulase enzyme extract obtained from A. niger with chitinolytic and chitosanolytic activities could be potentially used for making low-molecular-weight chitin and chitosan oligomers, having promising applications in biomedicine, pharmaceuticals, food, and agricultural industries, and in biocontrol formulations. 
21609467	20110526	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	The effects of disruption of phosphoglucose isomerase gene on carbon utilisation and cellulase production in Trichoderma reesei Rut-C30.	Cellulase and hemicellulase genes in the fungus Trichoderma reesei are repressed by glucose and induced by lactose. Regulation of the cellulase genes is mediated by the repressor CRE1 and the activator XYR1. T. reesei strain Rut-C30 is a hypercellulolytic mutant, obtained from the natural strain QM6a, that has a truncated version of the catabolite repressor gene, cre1. It has been previously shown that bacterial mutants lacking phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI) produce more nucleotide precursors and amino acids. PGI catalyzes the second step of glycolysis, the formation of fructose-6-P from glucose-6-P. We deleted the gene pgi1, encoding PGI, in the T. reesei strain Rut-C30 and we introduced the cre1 gene in a Δpgi1 mutant. Both Δpgi1 and cre1+Δpgi1 mutants showed a pellet-like and growth as well as morphological alterations compared with Rut-C30. None of the mutants grew in media with fructose, galactose, xylose, glycerol or lactose but they grew in media with glucose, with fructose and glucose, with galactose and fructose or with lactose and fructose. No growth was observed in media with xylose and glucose. On glucose, Δpgi1 and cre1+Δpgi1 mutants showed higher cellulase activity than Rut-C30 and QM6a, respectively. But in media with lactose, none of the mutants improved the production of the reference strains. The increase in the activity did not correlate with the expression of mRNA of the xylanase regulator gene, xyr1. Δpgi1 mutants were also affected in the extracellular β-galactosidase activity. Levels of mRNA of the glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase did not increase in Δpgi1 during growth on glucose. The ability to grow in media with glucose as the sole carbon source indicated that Trichoderma Δpgi1 mutants were able to use the pentose phosphate pathway. But, they did not increase the expression of gpdh. Morphological characteristics were the result of the pgi1 deletion. Deletion of pgi1 in Rut-C30 increased cellulase production, but only under repressing conditions. This increase resulted partly from the deletion itself and partly from a genetic interaction with the cre1-1 mutation. The lower cellulase activity of these mutants in media with lactose could be attributed to a reduced ability to hydrolyse this sugar but not to an effect on the expression of xyr1. 
16930940	20060826	Toxicol_In_Vitro	D016428 D013485 	Inflammatory potency of dust from the indoor environment and correlation to content of NAGase and fungi.	The aim of this study was to analyse the contribution of microbial factors to the inflammatory potency of dust (PD). Floor dust was sampled three times from 12 rooms in two schools. The potency of floor dust was measured as interleukin-8 secretion from the lung epithelial cell line A549 after exposure to dust. Measurements of endotoxin, NAGase activity and cultivable fungi in the dust were made. For endotoxin a difference was found between sampling days and for NAGase a difference was found between the schools. The carpeted staff rooms of the two schools had a significantly higher amount of dust/m(2) and endotoxin/m(2), and the PD/m(2) and NAGase activity/m(2) were also higher than in the classrooms with smooth flooring. The PD/m(2) correlated with all fungal parameters except total cultivable fungi. NAGase/m(2) correlated with PD, endotoxin and cultivable Cladosporium sp. per area, and was nearly significantly correlated to total cultivable fungi and Penicillium spp. Therefore; microbiological activity especially from fungi may contribute to the inflammatory potency of floor dust. Carpet flooring may act as a "sink" for microorganisms resulting in a higher inflammatory potency of floor dust, which may reflect building-related symptoms in occupants. 
22529004	20120425	Environ_Sci_Pollut_Res_Int	D016428 	Phytoremediation potential of Petunia grandiflora Juss., an ornamental plant to degrade a disperse, disulfonated triphenylmethane textile dye Brilliant Blue G.	Phytoremediation provides an ecofriendly alternative for the treatment of pollutants like textile dyes. The purpose of this study was to explore phytoremediation potential of Petunia grandiflora Juss. by using its wild as well as tissue-cultured plantlets to decolorize Brilliant Blue G (BBG) dye, a sample of dye mixture and a real textile effluent. In vitro cultures of P. grandiflora were obtained by seed culture method. The decolorization experiments were carried out using wild as well as tissue-cultured plants independently. The enzymatic analysis of the plant roots was performed before and after decolorization of BBG. Metabolites formed after dye degradation were analyzed using UV-vis spectroscopy, high-performance liquid chromatography, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Phytotoxicity studies were performed. Characterization of dye mixture and textile effluent was also studied. The wild and tissue-cultured plants of P. grandiflora showed the decolorized BBG up to 86 %. Significant increase in the activities of lignin peroxidase, laccase, NADH-2,6-dichlorophenol-indophenol reductase, and tyrosinase was found in the roots of the plants. Three metabolites of BBG were identified as 3-{[ethyl(phenyl)amino]methyl}benzenesulfonic acid, 3-{[methyl (phenyl)amino]methyl}benzenesulfonic amino acid, and sodium-3-[(cyclohexa-2,5-dien-1-ylideneamino)methyl]benzenesulfonate. Textile effluent sample and a synthetic mixture of dyes were also decolorized by P. grandiflora. Phytotoxicity test revealed the nontoxic nature of metabolites. P. grandiflora showed the potential to decolorize and degrade BBG to nontoxic metabolites. The plant has efficiently treated a sample of dye mixture and textile effluent. 
21507555	20110422	J._Environ._Manage.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of rhizosphere bacteria for control of phytopathogenic fungi of tomato.	Fluorescent Pseudomonas spp., isolated from rhizosphere soil of tomato and pepper plants, were evaluated in vitro as potential antagonists of fungal pathogens. Strains were characterized using the API 20NE biochemical system, and tested against the causal agents of stem canker and leaf blight (Alternaria alternata f. sp. lycopersici), southern blight (Sclerotium rolfsii Sacc.), and root rot (Fusarium solani). To this end, dual culture antagonism assays were carried out on 25% Tryptic Soy Agar, King B medium, and Potato Dextrose Agar to determine the effect of the strains on mycelial growth of the pathogens. The effect of two concentrations of FeCl(3) on antagonism against Alternaria alternata f. sp. lycopersici was also tested. In addition, strains were screened for ability to produce exoenzymes and siderophores. Finally, the selected Pseudomonas strain, PCI2, was evaluated for effect on tomato seedling development and as a potential candidate for controlling tomato damping-off caused by Sclerotium rolfsii Sacc., under growth chamber conditions. All strains significantly inhibited Alternaria alternata f. sp. lycopersici, particularly in 25% TSA medium. Antagonistic effect on Sclerotium rolfsii Sacc. and Fusarium solani was greater on King B medium. Protease was produced by 30% of the strains, but no strains produced cellulase or chitinase. Growth chamber studies resulted in significant increases in plant stand as well as in root dry weight. PCI2 was able to establish and survive in tomato plants rhizosphere after 40 days following planting of bacterized seeds. 
21888052	20110906	Ukr_Biokhim_Zh_(1999)	D004740 D016428 	[Coordinative compounds of zinc with N-substituted thiocarbamoyl-N'-pentamethylensulfenamides--activity modifiers of enzymes of proteolytic and glycolytic action].	The influence of a number of coordinative compounds of zinc with N-substituted thiocarbamoil-N'-pentamethylensulfenamides on activity of elastase, alpha-L-rhamnosidase and alpha-galactosidases evidence for a possibility of their usage as stimulators or inhibitors of enzymes tested have been studied. It was shown that all the compounds in concentration of 0.1 and 0.01% inhibited by 90-100% Bacillus thuringiensis 27-88Els+ elastase activity. [Zn(L2)Br2], [Zn(L1)(NCS)2] and [Zn(L3)(NCS)2] at 20 h exposition activated Cryptococcus albidus 1001 alpha-L-rhamnosidase activity. The rest of compounds influenced it on the control level or inhibited it by 7-23%. The obtained results testify that essential role is not played by separate fragments (L-ligand and anions), but by molecules of zinc complexes as a whole. All the studied complexes, exept for [Zn(L3)(NCS)2], induced alpha-L-rhamnosidase activity of Eupenicillium erubescens 248 (7 to 60%). All zinc compounds (concentration 0.01%, exposition time - 60 min) influenced at the control level Aspergillus niger and Cladosporium cladosporioides alpha-galactosidases activity, however inhibited (up to 20%) activity of Penicillium canescens alpha-galactosidase. The increasing of exposition time of the compounds tested with enzymes up to 20 h testify to selective action of separate compounds on enzymes tested. The data obtained prove, that the character of interaction of zinc complexes is changed depending on the enzyme tested and its strain-producer. 
10704993	20000308	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Hydroxyl radical generation by an extracellular low-molecular-weight substance and phenol oxidase activity during wood degradation by the white-rot basidiomycete Trametes versicolor.	One-electron oxidation activity, as measured by ethylene generation from 2-keto-4-thiomethylbutyric acid, phenol oxidase activity, and the generation of hydroxyl radical were examined in cultures of the lignin-degrading white-rot basidiomycete fungus, Trametes (Coriolus) versicolor. The activity levels of specific lignin-degrading enzymes and cellulases, as well as the rate of wood degradation, also were examined. The fungus secreted a low-molecular-weight substance (M(r) 1000-5000) that catalyzed a redox reaction between molecular oxygen and an electron donor, to produce the hydroxyl radical via hydrogen peroxide. During wood decay, T. versicolor also produced significant amounts of laccase and lignin peroxidase, carboxymethyl cellulase, and Avicelase. The roles of the hydroxyl radical, phenol oxidases, and cellulases in wood degradation by white-rot fungi are discussed. That the hydroxyl radical produced by the low-molecular-weight substance secreted by T. versicolor results in new phenolic substructures on the lignin polymer, making it susceptible to attack by laccase or manganese peroxidase is suggested. 
24031929	20130914	Braz._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Selection of thermophilic and thermotolerant fungi for the production of cellulases and xylanases under solid-state fermentation.	Twenty-seven thermophilic and thermotolerant fungal strains were isolated from soil, decaying organic matter and sugarcane piles based on their ability to grow at 45°C on medium containing corn straw and cardboard as carbon sources. These fungi were identified in the genera Aspergillus, Thermomyces, Myceliophthora, Thermomucor and Candida. The majority of the isolated strains produced xylanase and cellulases under solid state fermentation (SSF). The highest cellulase and xylanase productions were obtained by the cultivation of the strains identified as Aspergillus fumigatus M.7.1 and Myceliophthora thermophila M.7.7. The enzymes from these strains exhibited maximum activity at pH 5.0 and at 60 and 70ºC. The endo-glucanase from A. fumigatus was stable from 40°C to 65°C and both endo-glucanase and xylanase from M. thermophila were stable in this temperature range when in absence of substrate. The enzymes were stable from pH 4.0 to 9.0.  
15649772	20050115	Comp._Biochem._Physiol._B,_Biochem._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Digestive capabilities reflect the major food sources in three species of talitrid amphipods.	Digestive enzyme activities of three talitrid amphipods were examined to investigate the relationship between their digestive capabilities and diet. Laminarinase, cellobiase, carboxymethyl-cellulase, xylanase, alpha- and beta-glucosidase and lipase were detected in all three species suggesting talitrid amphipods can readily digest dietary carbohydrate and lipid, including complex polysaccharides. Relatively high specific enzyme activity (Units (mg(-1) digestive tract protein)(-1)) of laminarinase and lipase was detected in Talorchestia marmorata, a supralittoral kelp feeder which is coherent with the digestion of lipid-esters and beta-glucans (laminarin) which are the main lipid and storage polysaccharides of brown seaweeds. Talorchestia sp., a low shore intertidal feeder, had high enzymatic activity of alpha- and beta-glucosidase, cellobiase and xylanase, which is consistent with the digestion of diatoms. Keratroides vulgaris, a forest litter feeder had a relatively low specific activity of all enzymes. It is possible that leaf litter is partially digested prior to ingestion by bacteria and fungi present in the rotting vegetation, with bacterial and fungal enzymes contributing to this species' ability to hydrolyse its diet. This study provides the first quantitative data on digestive capacity in these three talitrid amphipods and confirms the relationship between dietary preference and digestive enzyme complement. 
23022438	20121002	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	[NiFe]-hydrogenase maturation: isolation of a HypC-HypD complex carrying diatomic CO and CN- ligands.	The HypC and HypD maturases are required for the biosynthesis of the Fe(CN)(2)CO cofactor in the large subunit of [NiFe]-hydrogenases. Using infrared spectroscopy we demonstrate that an anaerobically purified, Strep-tagged HypCD complex from Escherichia coli exhibits absorption bands characteristic of diatomic CO and CN(-) ligands as well as CO(2). Metal and sulphide analyses revealed that along with the [4Fe-4S](2+) cluster in HypD, the complex has two additional oxygen-labile Fe ions. We prove that HypD cysteine 41 is required for the coordination of all three ligands. These findings suggest that the HypCD complex carries minimally the Fe(CN)(2)CO cofactor. 
19146495	20090117	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Differential expression of plg genes from Penicillium griseoroseum: plg1 a pectinolytic gene is expressed in sucrose and yeast extract.	To study the regulation of the plg1 and plg2 genes of Penicillium griseoroseum, in order to identify the industrial potential of their products in alternative carbon sources that are cheaper and widely available in Brazil. RT-PCR and Northern blot were used to investigate if plg1 and plg2 expression is under influence of catabolic repression, ambient pH and cAMP. Results demonstrated that the genes were differentially regulated depending on the carbon sources in the culture medium and pH. Sucrose, a noninducing carbon source of the pectinolytic system, was able to promote plg1 transcription but only when yeast extract was added into the culture medium. The plg genes are differentially expressed. The plg1 gene is more attractive for industrial use due to its expression in alternative carbon sources like sucrose and yeast extract. In recent years, industries have been trying to replace the toxic conventional treatments employed in these processes by more eco-friendly enzyme treatment. Alternative carbon sources will be tested with the aim to reduce the costs associated to pectin lyase production in Brazil. 
22897832	20120818	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Secretory expression of a β-xylosidase gene from Thermomyces lanuginosus in Escherichia coli and characterization of its recombinant enzyme.	To characterize a β-xylosidase from the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus and to investigate its potential in saccharification of hemicellulosic xylans. A gene (designated TlXyl43) encoding β-xylosidase was cloned from T. lanuginosus CAU44 and expressed in Escherichia coli. The gene consists of a 1017-bp open reading frame without introns. It encodes a mature protein of 338 residues with no predicted signal peptide, belonging to glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 43. Over 60% of the recombinant β-xylosidase (TlXyl43) was secreted into the culture medium. TlXyl43 was purified 2·6-fold to homogeneity with an estimated mass of 51·6kDa by SDS-PAGE. The purified enzyme exhibited optimal activity at pH 6·5 and 55°C and was stable at 50°C. It was competitively inhibited by xylose with a Ki value of 63mmol l(-1). In this study, a GH family 43 β-xylosidase gene (TlXyl43) from T. lanuginosus CAU44 was cloned and functionally expressed in E. coli, and over 60% of recombinant protein was secreted into the culture. This is the first report of the cloning and functional expression of a β-xylosidase gene from Thermomyces species. TlXyl43 holds great potential for variety of industries. 
24077704	20131001	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Cooperative degradation of chitin by extracellular and cell surface-expressed chitinases from Paenibacillus sp. strain FPU-7.	Chitin, a major component of fungal cell walls and invertebrate cuticles, is an exceedingly abundant polysaccharide, ranking next to cellulose. Industrial demand for chitin and its degradation products as raw materials for fine chemical products is increasing. A bacterium with high chitin-decomposing activity, Paenibacillus sp. strain FPU-7, was isolated from soil by using a screening medium containing α-chitin powder. Although FPU-7 secreted several extracellular chitinases and thoroughly digested the powder, the extracellular fluid alone broke them down incompletely. Based on expression cloning and phylogenetic analysis, at least seven family 18 chitinase genes were found in the FPU-7 genome. Interestingly, the product of only one gene (chiW) was identified as possessing three S-layer homology (SLH) domains and two glycosyl hydrolase family 18 catalytic domains. Since SLH domains are known to function as anchors to the Gram-positive bacterial cell surface, ChiW was suggested to be a novel multimodular surface-expressed enzyme and to play an important role in the complete degradation of chitin. Indeed, the ChiW protein was localized on the cell surface. Each of the seven chitinase genes (chiA to chiF and chiW) was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli cells for biochemical characterization of their products. In particular, ChiE and ChiW showed high activity for insoluble chitin. The high chitinolytic activity of strain FPU-7 and the chitinases may be useful for environmentally friendly processing of chitin in the manufacture of food and/or medicine.  
22912883	20120823	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Phylogenetic diversity and environment-specific distributions of glycosyl hydrolase family 10 xylanases in geographically distant soils.	Xylan is one of the most abundant biopolymers on Earth. Its degradation is mediated primarily by microbial xylanase in nature. To explore the diversity and distribution patterns of xylanase genes in soils, samples of five soil types with different physicochemical characters were analyzed. Partial xylanase genes of glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 10 were recovered following direct DNA extraction from soil, PCR amplification and cloning. Combined with our previous study, a total of 1084 gene fragments were obtained, representing 366 OTUs. More than half of the OTUs were novel (identities of <65% with known xylanases) and had no close relatives based on phylogenetic analyses. Xylanase genes from all the soil environments were mainly distributed in Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Dictyoglomi and some fungi. Although identical sequences were found in several sites, habitat-specific patterns appeared to be important, and geochemical factors such as pH and oxygen content significantly influenced the compositions of xylan-degrading microbial communities. These results provide insight into the GH 10 xylanases in various soil environments and reveal that xylan-degrading microbial communities are environment specific with diverse and abundant populations. 
14993671	20040303	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystal packing in two pH-dependent crystal forms of rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase.	The glycoprotein rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase from Aspergillus aculeatus has been crystallized in two crystal forms, an orthorhombic and a trigonal crystal form. In the orthorhombic crystal form, the covalently bound carbohydrate at one of the two N-glycosylation sites is involved in crystal contacts. The orthorhombic crystal form was obtained at pH 5.0 and the trigonal crystal form at pH 4.5. In one case, the two crystal forms were found in the same drop at pH 4.7. The differences in crystal packing in the two crystal forms can be explained by the pH-dependent variation in the protonation state of the glutamic acid residues on the protein surface. 
24564786	20140226	BMC_Genomics	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Fungal plant cell wall-degrading enzyme database: a platform for comparative and evolutionary genomics in fungi and Oomycetes.	Plant cell wall-degrading enzymes (PCWDEs) play significant roles throughout the fungal life including acquisition of nutrients and decomposition of plant cell walls. In addition, many of PCWDEs are also utilized by biofuel and pulp industries. In order to develop a comparative genomics platform focused in fungal PCWDEs and provide a resource for evolutionary studies, Fungal PCWDE Database (FPDB) is constructed (http://pcwde.riceblast.snu.ac.kr/). In order to archive fungal PCWDEs, 22 sequence profiles were constructed and searched on 328 genomes of fungi, Oomycetes, plants and animals. A total of 6,682 putative genes encoding PCWDEs were predicted, showing differential distribution by their life styles, host ranges and taxonomy. Genes known to be involved in fungal pathogenicity, including polygalacturonase (PG) and pectin lyase, were enriched in plant pathogens. Furthermore, crop pathogens had more PCWDEs than those of rot fungi, implying that the PCWDEs analysed in this study are more needed for invading plant hosts than wood-decaying processes. Evolutionary analysis of PGs in 34 selected genomes revealed that gene duplication and loss events were mainly driven by taxonomic divergence and partly contributed by those events in species-level, especially in plant pathogens. The FPDB would provide a fungi-specialized genomics platform, a resource for evolutionary studies of PCWDE gene families and extended analysis option by implementing Favorite, which is a data exchange and analysis hub built in Comparative Fungal Genomics Platform (CFGP 2.0; http://cfgp.snu.ac.kr/). 
19592259	20090714	Bioorg._Med._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Design and synthesis of acetamido tri- and tetra-hydroxyazepanes: potent and selective beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase inhibitors.	A series of seven-membered iminosugars bearing an acetamido group beta- or gamma- to the endocyclic nitrogen have been synthesized via simple transformations of previously described polysubstituted azepanes. These tetra- and trihydroxylated acetamido azepanes are ring homologues of 2-acetamido-1,2-dideoxy-glyconojirimycins and 2-acetamido-1-N-iminosugars respectively. Screening of these azepanes towards a range of commercially available glycosidases demonstrated their potential as selective and potent hexosaminidase inhibitors with K(i)'s in the submicromolar range. A correlation between the relative configuration of the azepanes and their ability to inactivate hexosaminidases was also observed for the first time for this class of compounds with one notable exception for the most potent compound. 
19756576	20090917	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a chimeric enzyme comprising feruloyl esterase and family 42 carbohydrate-binding module.	We engineered a chimeric enzyme (AwFaeA-CBM42) comprising of type-A feruloyl esterase from Aspergillus awamori (AwFaeA) and family 42 carbohydrate-binding module (AkCBM42) from glycoside hydrolase family 54 alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase of Aspergillus kawachii. The chimeric enzyme was successfully produced in Pichia pastoris and accumulated in the culture broth. The purified chimeric enzyme had an apparent relative molecular mass (M(r)) of 53,000. The chimeric enzyme binds to arabinoxylan; this indicates that the AkCBM42 in AwFaeA-CBM42 binds to arabinofuranose side chain moiety of arabinoxylan. The thermostability of the chimeric enzyme was greater than that of AwFaeA. No significant difference of the specific activity toward methyl ferulate was observed between the AwFaeA and chimeric enzyme, but the release of ferulic acid from insoluble arabinoxylan by the chimeric enzyme was approximately 4-fold higher than that achieved by AwFaeA alone. In addition, the chimeric enzyme and xylanase acted synergistically for the degradation of arabinoxylan. In conclusion, the findings of our study demonstrated that the components of the AwFaeA-CBM42 chimeric enzyme act synergistically to bring about the degradation of complex substrates and that the family 42 carbohydrate-binding module has potential for application in the degradation of polysaccharides. 
13677464	20030919	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Fungus- and wound-induced accumulation of mRNA containing a class II chitinase of the pathogenesis-related protein 4 (PR-4) family of maize.	Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins are plant proteins that are induced in response to pathogen attack. PR proteins are grouped into independent families based on their sequences and properties. The PR-4 family comprises class I and class II chitinases. We have isolated a full-length cDNA encoding a chitinase from maize which shares a high degree of nucleotide and amino acid sequence homology with the class II chitinases of the PR-4 family of PR proteins. Our results indicate that fungal infection, and treatment either with fungal elicitors or with moniliformin, a mycotoxin produced by the fungus Fusarium moniliforme, increase the level of ZmPR4 mRNA. In situ mRNA hybridization analysis in sections obtained from fungus-infected germinating embryos revealed that ZmPR4 mRNA accumulation occurs in those cell types that first establish contact with the pathogen. ZmPR4 mRNA accumulation is also stimulated by treatment with silver nitrate whereas the application of the hormones gibberellic acid or acetylsalicylic acid has no effect. Wounding, or treatment with abscisic acid or methyl jasmonate, results in accumulation of ZmPR4 mRNA in maize leaves. Furthermore, the ZmPR4 protein was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and used to obtain polyclonal antibodies that specifically recognized ZmPR4 in protein extracts from fungus-infected embryos. Accumulation of ZmPR4 mRNA in fungus-infected maize tissues was accompanied by a significant accumulation of the corresponding protein. The possible implications of these findings as part of the general defence response of maize plants against pathogens are discussed. 
19669227	20090812	Microb._Ecol.	D016428 	Population dynamics and identification of endophytic bacteria antagonistic toward plant-pathogenic fungi in cotton root.	The antagonistic potentials of endophytic bacteria isolated from the roots of six cotton cultivars at different developmental stages were determined in vitro toward three pathogens: Verticillium dahliae Kleb V107 and V396 and Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. vasinfectum (F108). The populations of antagonistic endophytic bacteria (AEB) toward V107, V396, and F108 at the flowering and maturation stages were significantly higher than those at the seedling stage were. More AEB were found to be antagonistic toward pathogens V396 and F108 than V107. Results from the multivariate analysis of variance showed that the populations of AEB were significantly different for the main factors of cultivars, stages, and their interactions. Based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis, the 39 AEB isolates that antagonized V107, V396, and F108 (BAEB) consisted of seven genera, in which the genus of Enterobacter (17 out of 39) and Pantoea (14 out of 39) were predominant among the BAEB isolates. Characterized by BOX-PCR fingerprints, these 39 BAEB isolates represented 35 different cluster types. To explore the antagonistic mechanisms, the agar diffusion method was used to detect cell-wall-degrading enzyme activity and siderophore secretion. Nearly half of these BAEB isolates showed protease and chitinase activity, while all 39 BAEB isolates excreted siderophores. However, pectinase, cellulase, and xylanase activity were hardly detected. A germination experiment revealed that nine of the 39 BAEB isolates significantly improved the vigor index of the cotton seedlings. 
22767376	20120707	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	An amperometric enzyme biosensor for real-time measurements of cellobiohydrolase activity on insoluble cellulose.	An amperometric enzyme biosensor for continuous detection of cellobiose has been implemented as an enzyme assay for cellulases. We show that the initial kinetics for cellobiohydrolase I, Cel7A from Trichoderma reesei, acting on different types of cellulose substrates, semi-crystalline and amorphous, can be monitored directly and in real-time by an enzyme-modified electrode based on cellobiose dehydrogenase (CDH) from Phanerochaete chrysosporium (Pc). PcCDH was cross-linked and immobilized on the surface of a carbon paste electrode which contained a mediator, benzoquinone. An oxidation current of the reduced mediator, hydroquinone, produced by the CDH-catalyzed reaction with cellobiose, was recorded under constant-potential amperometry at +0.5 V (vs. Ag/AgCl). The CDH-biosensors showed high sensitivity (87.7 µA mM(-1) cm(-2)), low detection limit (25 nM), and fast response time (t(95%) ≈ 3 s) and this provided experimental access to the transient kinetics of cellobiohydrolases acting on insoluble cellulose. The response from the CDH-biosensor during enzymatic hydrolysis was corrected for the specificity of PcCDH for the β-anomer of cello-oligosaccharides and the approach were validated against HPLC. It is suggested that quantitative, real-time data on pure insoluble cellulose substrates will be useful in attempts to probe the molecular mechanism underlying enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose. 
1886612	19910801	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	The GAM1/SNF2 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a highly charged nuclear protein required for transcription of the STA1 gene.	We have cloned and sequenced the GAM1 gene which is required for transcription of the STA1 gene encoding an extracellular glucoamylase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae var. diastaticus. Complementation tests indicated that GAM1 is the same gene as SNF2 which is required for derepression of the SUC2 gene encoding invertase. Accumulation of SNF2 RNA was not regulated by the GAM2 and GAM3 genes which are also required for STA1 expression. The SNF2 gene was predicted to encode a 194 kDa highly charged protein with a glutamine-rich tract. A bifunctional SNF2-lacZ fusion protein was shown by immunofluorescence microscopy to be localized to the nucleus, suggesting that the SNF2 protein is located in the nucleus. 
15160297	20040526	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and biochemical properties of a thermostable xylose-tolerant beta- D-xylosidase from Scytalidium thermophilum.	The thermophilic fungus Scytalidium thermophilum produced large amounts of periplasmic beta- D-xylosidase activity when grown on xylan as carbon source. The presence of glucose in the fresh culture medium drastically reduced the level of beta- D-xylosidase activity, while cycloheximide prevented induction of the enzyme by xylan. The mycelial beta-xylosidase induced by xylan was purified using a procedure that included heating at 50 degrees C, ammonium sulfate fractioning (30-75%), and chromatography on Sephadex G-100 and DEAE-Sephadex A-50. The purified beta- D-xylosidase is a monomer with an estimated molecular mass of 45 kDa (SDS-PAGE) or 38 kDa (gel filtration). The enzyme is a neutral protein (pI 7.1), with a carbohydrate content of 12% and optima of temperature and pH of 60 degrees C and 5.0, respectively. beta- D-Xylosidase activity is strongly stimulated and protected against heat inactivation by calcium ions. In the absence of substrate, the enzyme is stable for 1 h at 60 degrees C and has half-lives of 11 and 30 min at 65 degrees C in the absence or presence of calcium, respectively. The purified beta- D-xylosidase hydrolyzed p-nitrophenol-beta- D-xylopyranoside and p-nitrophenol-beta- D-glucopyranoside, exhibiting apparent K(m) and V(max) values of 1.3 mM, 88 micromol min(-1) protein(-1) and 0.5 mM, 20 micromol min(-1) protein(-1), respectively. The purified enzyme hydrolyzed xylobiose, xylotriose, and xylotetraose, and is therefore a true beta- D-xylosidase. Enzyme activity was completely insensitive to xylose, which inhibits most beta-xylosidases, at concentrations up to 200 mM. Its thermal stability and high xylose tolerance qualify this enzyme for industrial applications. The high tolerance of S. thermophilum beta-xylosidase to xylose inhibition is a positive characteristic that distinguishes this enzyme from all others described in the literature. 
24142352	20131022	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	A feruloyl esterase (FAE) characterized by relatively high thermostability from the edible mushroom Russula virescens.	A monomeric feruloyl esterase (FAE) with a molecular mass of 62 kDa was acquired from fresh fruiting bodies of the edible mushroom Russula virescens. The isolation procedure involved ion exchange chromatography on CM-cellulose, Q-Sepharose, and SP-Sepharose and finally fast protein liquid chromatography-gel filtration on Superdex 75. Two amino acid sequences were obtained after tryptic digestion, and they both showed some homology with the esterase of some fungi. Maximal activity was observed at pH 5.0 and at 50 °C. The enzyme displayed relatively high thermostability as evidenced by over 70 % residual activity at 70 °C and about 34 % residual activity at 80 °C. The K m and V max for this enzyme on methyl ferulate were 0.19 mM and 1.65 U/mg proteins, respectively. The purified FAE prefers methyl ferulate over methyl caffeate and is least active on methyl p-coumarate. The FAE activity was not significantly affected by the presence of cations such as Mn(2+), Ca(2+), Cd(2+), Zn(2+), Mg(2+), Cu(2+), and K(+) ions but inhibited by Al(3+), Hg(2+), Fe(2+), and Pb(2+) ions at a tested concentration of 2. 5 mM.  
19774110	20090924	Int._J._Biol._Sci.	D016428 D016454 	Fungal bioconversion of lignocellulosic residues; opportunities & perspectives.	The development of alternative energy technology is critically important because of the rising prices of crude oil, security issues regarding the oil supply, and environmental issues such as global warming and air pollution. Bioconversion of biomass has significant advantages over other alternative energy strategies because biomass is the most abundant and also the most renewable biomaterial on our planet. Bioconversion of lignocellulosic residues is initiated primarily by microorganisms such as fungi and bacteria which are capable of degrading lignocellulolytic materials. Fungi such as Trichoderma reesei and Aspergillus niger produce large amounts of extracellular cellulolytic enzymes, whereas bacterial and a few anaerobic fungal strains mostly produce cellulolytic enzymes in a complex called cellulosome, which is associated with the cell wall. In filamentous fungi, cellulolytic enzymes including endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases (exoglucanases) and beta-glucosidases work efficiently on cellulolytic residues in a synergistic manner. In addition to cellulolytic/hemicellulolytic activities, higher fungi such as basidiomycetes (e.g. Phanerochaete chrysosporium) have unique oxidative systems which together with ligninolytic enzymes are responsible for lignocellulose degradation. This review gives an overview of different fungal lignocellulolytic enzymatic systems including extracellular and cellulosome-associated in aerobic and anaerobic fungi, respectively. In addition, oxidative lignocellulose-degradation mechanisms of higher fungi are discussed. Moreover, this paper reviews the current status of the technology for bioconversion of biomass by fungi, with focus on mutagenesis, co-culturing and heterologous gene expression attempts to improve fungal lignocellulolytic activities to create robust fungal strains. 
14519993	20031002	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Cloning and sequence analysis of endoglucanase genes from an industrial fungus, Aspergillus kawachii.	Three endoglucanase genes (cel5A, cel5B, and cel61A) were cloned from an industrial fungus, Aspergillus kawachii. Yeasts transformed with these cDNAs showed endoglucanase activity in medium. Cel5A and Cel61A contained a type 1 cellulose-binding domain (CBD1) at the C-terminus of the enzyme. The putative catalytic regions of Cel5A and Cel5B showed homology with various endoglucanases belonging glycosyl hydrolase family 5 (GH5). Cel5B showed high homology with Cel5A in catalytic region, but it lacked CBD1 and linker. The cel5A contained four introns, whereas cel5B contained five introns. The putative catalytic region of Cel61A showed homology with enzymes belonging to GH61. The cel61A contained no introns. 
22608737	20120522	Meth._Enzymol.	D016428 D013485 	Metagenomic approaches to the discovery of cellulases.	Most of the microorganisms responsible for nutrient cycling in the environment have yet to be cultivated, and this could include those species responsible for the degradation of cellulose. Known cellulases are well defined at the protein sequence level, but gene variants are difficult to amplify from environmental DNA. The identification of novel cellulase genes independent of DNA amplification is made possible by adopting a direct metagenome sequencing approach to provide genes that can be cloned, expressed, and characterized prior to potential exploitation, all in the absence of any information on the species from which they originated. In this chapter, emerging strategies and methods that will enable the identification of novel cellulase genes and provide an unbiased perspective on gene expression in situ are presented. 
23334095	20130122	Int._J._Food_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Functional characterization of the polyketide synthase gene required for ochratoxin A biosynthesis in Penicillium verrucosum.	The ochratoxin A (OTA) polyketide synthase otapks gene has been cloned from Penicillium verrucosum. A P. verrucosum mutant in which the otapksPV gene has been interrupted cannot synthesize ochratoxin A. The protein is most similar to the citrinin polyketide synthase CtnpksMa from Monascus anka (83% identity at the amino acid level). Different nutritional conditions influence OTA production in P. verrucosum, with the addition of glycerol and galactose to MCB resulting in approximately 19 and 32 fold increases in OTA production respectively. These effects are mirrored in increased levels of otapksPV gene transcription. In contrast, the addition of glucose to MCB containing galactose results in an approximate 10 fold repression in OTA production, with this repression again being mirrored in decreased levels of otapksPV gene transcription. Thus the effects of different carbon sources on OTA production in P. verucosum appear to be regulated at the level of gene transcription. Two additional open reading frames, otaE and otaT, were identified in the 5' and 3' flanking regions of otapksPV, respectively. The otaT and otaE genes are co-expressed with P. verrucosum otapksPv, indicating a possible role for these genes in OTA biosynthesis. Furthermore, otaT and otaE were identified as putative homologues of the M. anka citrinin transporter ctnC (72% amino acid identity) and M. anka citrinin oxidoreductase ctnB (83% amino acid identity); suggesting that the genes involved in OTA production in P. verrucosum may be very similar to those involved in citrinin production in M. anka. 
11549021	20010911	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Novel glucoamylase-type enzymes from Thermoactinomyces vulgaris and Methanococcus jannaschii whose genes are found in the flanking region of the alpha-amylase genes.	A region downstream of the gene for pullulan-hydrolyzing alpha-amylase, TVA II, of Thermoactinomyces vulgaris R-47 was sequenced, and an open reading frame encoding an enzyme homologous to glucoamylase was found. The nucleotide sequence of this enzyme, designated TGA, consists of 1,953 base pairs corresponding to a protein of 651 amino acid residues. The TGA gene was subcloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Enzymatic analyses showed that, like other glucoamylases, TGA produced beta-D-glucose from its substrate. However, TGA hydrolyzed maltooligosaccharides such as maltotetraose and maltose more efficiently than starch, while fungal glucoamylases preferred starch to maltooligosaccharides. The primary structure of TGA resembled a putative glucoamylase from the hyperthermophilic archaeon Methanococcus jannaschii (MGA), while homologies between TGA and the fungal glucoamylases were low. The enzymatic properties of recombinant MGA produced in E. coli cells were similar to those of TGA. These findings indicate that TGA and MGA are novel glucoamy-lase-type enzymes with oligosaccaharide-metabolizing activity. 
17916074	20071006	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Role of 14-3-3 proteins in the regulation of neutral trehalase in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In higher eukaryotes, 14-3-3 proteins participate in numerous cellular processes, and carry out their function through a variety of different molecular mechanisms, including regulation of protein localization and enzyme activation. Here, it is shown that the two yeast 14-3-3 homologues, Bmh1p and Bmh2p, form a complex with neutral trehalase (Nth1p), an enzyme that is responsible for trehalose degradation and is required in a variety of stress conditions. In a purified in vitro system, either one of the two 14-3-3 yeast isoforms are necessary for complete activation of neutral trehalase (Nth1p) after phosphorylation by PKA. It is further demonstrated that Bmh1p and Bmh2p bind to the amino-terminal region of phosphorylated trehalase, thereby modulating its enzymatic activity. This work represents the first demonstration of enzyme activation mediated by 14-3-3 binding in yeast. 
22488104	20120411	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Production of lignocellulose-degrading enzymes employing Fusarium solani F-552.	In this work, capability of Fusarium solani F-552 of producing lignocellulose-degrading enzymes in submerged fermentation was investigated. The enzyme cocktail includes hydrolases (cellulases, xylanases, and proteinases) as well as ligninolytic enzymes: manganese-dependent peroxidase (MnP), lignin peroxidase (LiP), and laccase (Lac). To our knowledge, this is the first report on production of MnP, LiP, and Lac together by one F. solani strain. The enzyme productions were significantly influenced by application of either lignocellulosic material or chemical inducers into the fermentation medium. Among them, corn bran significantly enhanced especially productions of cellulases and xylanases (248 and 170 U/mL, respectively) as compared to control culture (11.7 and 29.2 U/mL, respectively). High MnP activity (9.43 U/mL, control 0.45 U/mL) was observed when (+)-catechin was applied into the medium, the yield of LiP was maximal (33.06 U/mL, control 2.69 U/mL) in gallic acid, and Lac was efficiently induced by, 2,2'-azino-bis-[3-ethyltiazoline-6-sulfonate] (6.74 U/mL, not detected in control). Finally, in order to maximize the ligninolytic enzymes yields, a novel strategy of introduction of mild oxidative stress conditions caused by hydrogen peroxide into the fermentation broth was tested. Hydrogen peroxide significantly increased activities of MnP, LiP, and Lac which may indicate that these enzymes could be partially involved in stress response against H(2)O(2). The concentration of H(2)O(2) and the time of the stress application were optimized; hence, when 10 mmol/L H(2)O(2) was applied at the second and sixth day of cultivation, the MnP, LiP, and Lac yields reached 21.67, 77.42, and 12.04 U/mL, respectively. 
8049376	19940601	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Characterization of a pollen-expressed gene encoding a putative pectin esterase of Petunia inflata.	From a pollen tube cDNA library of Petunia inflata, we isolated cDNA clones encoding a protein, PPE1, which exhibits sequence similarity with plant, bacterial, and fungal pectin esterases. Genomic clones containing the PPE1 gene were isolated using cDNA for PPE1 as a probe, and comparison of the cDNA and genomic sequences revealed the presence of a single intron in the PPE1 gene. During pollen development, PPE1 mRNA was first detected in anthers containing uninucleate microspores; it reached the highest level in mature pollen and persisted at a high level in in vitro germinated pollen tubes. The observed expression pattern of the PPE1 gene suggests that its product may play a role in pollen germination and/or tube growth. 
3656407	19870420	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction study of a xylanase from Trichoderma harzianum.	A 20,000 Mr xylanase from Trichoderma harzianum has been purified and crystallized from 20% (w/v) saturated ammonium sulphate solutions. The unit cell is orthorhombic, space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit cell lengths a = 44.2 A, b = 94.1 A, c = 51.6 A. Data from native crystals and several potential heavy-atom derivatives have been collected. An X-ray analysis to at least 2.8 A resolution appears to be feasible. 
16665863	19880101	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Chitinase cDNA cloning and mRNA induction by fungal elicitor, wounding, and infection.	Chitinase, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of beta-1,4 N-acetylglucosamine linkages of the fungal cell wall polymer chitin, is a component of the inducible defenses of plants. We show that chitinase synthesis is stimulated in bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) cell suspension cultures treated with fungal cell wall elicitors and in hypocotyls in response to infection with the fungus Colletotrichum lindemuthianum. Chitinase cDNA clones were isolated by antibody screening of a lambdagt11 cDNA library containing sequences complementary to poly A(+) RNA from elicited cells. The identity of these clones was confirmed by nucleotide sequence analysis and comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with that determined for the amino-terminal sequence of bean chitinase. Elicitor causes a very rapid activation of chitinase transcription with a 10-fold stimulation after 5 minutes and 30-fold increase within 20 minutes. This leads to a marked, transient accumulation of chitinase transcripts with maximum levels 2 hours after elicitor treatment, concomitant with the phase of rapid enzyme synthesis. Chitinase transcripts also markedly accumulate in wounded and infected hypocotyls. Chitinase cDNA sequences hybridize to several genomic fragments suggesting there are several chitinase genes in the bean genome. 
16661872	19810701	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Host-Pathogen Interactions: XVI. PURIFICATION AND CHARACTERIZATION OF A beta-GLUCOSYL HYDROLASE/TRANSFERASE PRESENT IN THE WALLS OF SOYBEAN CELLS.	The fact that fungal glucans will stimulate soybeans to accumulate phytoalexins prompted an investigation of soybean cell beta-1,3-glucanases and beta-glucosidases, as well as the ability of these enzymes to hydrolyze the fungal glucans. Several beta-1,3-glucanases and beta-glucosidases can be solubilized from the walls of suspension-cultured soybean cells by treatment with 1.0 molar sodium acetate buffer. An enzyme, which has been termed beta-glucosylase I, is the dominant beta-1,3-glucanase in the cell wall extracts. Utilizing CM-Sephadex chromatography, hydroxylapatite chromatography, and affinity chromatography, beta-glucosylase I has been purified 71-fold, with 39% recovery, from the mixture of cell wall enzymes. The affinity chromatography column material was prepared by covalently attaching p-aminophenyl-1-beta-d-glucopyranoside, an analog of a beta-glucosylase I substrate, to Sepharose. beta-Glucosylase I, purified by this procedure, yields a single band on isoelectric focusing gels (pH 8.9). However, the purified beta-glucosylase I yields a darkly-staining protein band at an apparent molecular weight of 69,000 and several lightly-staining protein bands in sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels. Additional purification procedures fail to remove these lightly-staining protein bands.beta-Glucosylase I will hydrolyze the beta-glucan substrates, laminarin (3-linked) and lichenan (3- and 4-linked), and therefore, possesses beta-glucanase activity. Studies of the progressive hydrolysis of laminarin by beta-glucosylase I demonstrate that the enzyme hydrolyzes polysaccharide substrates in an exo manner. beta-Glucosylase I will also hydrolyze a variety of low molecular weight beta-glucosides including various beta-linked diglucosides. Thus, beta-glucosylase I also possesses beta-glucosidase activity.Several lines of evidence are presented that the beta-glucanase and the beta-glucosidase activities exhibited by purified beta-glucosylase I preparations are catalyzed by the same enzyme. This evidence includes inhibition studies which indicate that the beta-glucanase and the beta-glucosidase activities of beta-glucosylase I are catalyzed at the same active site. beta-Glucosylase I will also catalyze glucosyl transfer. This catalytic activity is responsible for the observed ability of the enzyme to synthesize di- and trisaccharides from laminarin. The disaccharides formed by beta-glucosylase I-catalyzed transglucosylation are the beta-anomers of the 6-, 4-, 3-, and 2-linked diglucosides in the relative proportions of 10:1:1:1. The ability of beta-glucosylase I to catalyze glucosyl transfer indicates that beta-glucosylase I is biochemically more similar to previously studied beta-glucosidases than to beta-glucanases. This conclusion is supported by the observation that beta-glucosylase I is strongly inhibited by 1,5-d-gluconolactone, an inhibitor of beta-glucosidases but not of beta-glucanases. 
6470680	19840801	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 D013487 	The co-ordination of chitosan and chitin synthesis in Mucor rouxii.	Chitin synthetase preparations from cell walls and chitosomes of the fungus Mucor rouxii were tested for their ability to synthesize chitosan when incubated with uridine diphosphate N-acetyl-D-glucosamine in the presence of chitin deacetylase. The most effective chitin synthetase preparation was one dissociated from cell walls with digitonin. The rate of chitosan synthesis by the wall-dissociated chitin synthetase was about three times that of an equivalent amount of cell walls. The chitosan-synthesizing ability of chitosomes was relatively low, but was more than tripled by treatment with digitonin. Presumably, digitonin improves chitosan yields of dissociating chitin synthetase. The dissociated enzyme would produce dispersed chitin chains that could be attacked by chitin deacetylase before they have time to crystallize into microfibrils. The regulation of chitin and chitosan syntheses in vivo may be determined by the organization of chitin synthetase molecules at the cell surface. Those molecules that remain organized as a complex, similar if not identical to that found in chitosomes, would produce mainly chitin. Chitosan would be preferentially produced by chitin synthetase molecules which are dispersed upon reaching the cell surface. 
21193815	20110104	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Genetic and phenotypic diversity of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria isolated from sugarcane plants growing in pakistan.	Bacteria were isolated from roots of sugarcane varieties grown in the fields of Punjab. They were identified by using API20E/NE bacterial identification kits and from sequences of 16S rRNA and amplicons of the cpn60 gene. The majority of bacteria were found to belong to the genera of Enterobacter, Pseudomonas, and Klebsiella, but members of genera Azospirillum, Rhizobium, Rahnella, Delftia, Caulobacter, Pannonibacter, Xanthomonas, and Stenotrophomonas were also found. The community, however, was dominated by members of the Pseudomonadaceae and Enterobacteriaceae, as representatives of these genera were found in samples from every variety and location examined. All isolates were tested for the presence of five enzymes and seven factors known to be associated with plant growth promotion. Ten isolates showed lipase activity and eight were positive for protease activity. Cellulase, chitinase, and pectinase were not detected in any strain. Nine strains showed nitrogen fixing ability (acetylene reduction assay) and 26 were capable of solubilizing phosphate. In the presence of 100 mg/l tryptophan, all strains except one produced indole acetic acid in the growth medium. All isolates were positive for ACC deaminase activity. Six strains produced homoserine lactones and three produced HCN and hexamate type siderophores. One isolate was capable of inhibiting the growth of 24 pathogenic fungal strains of Colletotrichum, Fusarium, Pythium, and Rhizoctonia spp. In tests of their abilities to grow under a range of temperature, pH, and NaCl concentrations, all isolates grew well on plates with 3% NaCl and most of them grew well at 4 to 41degrees C and at pH 11. 
3125847	19870901	Biochem._Cell_Biol.	D016428 	The copurification of beta-glucosidase, beta-xylosidase, and 1,3-beta-glucanase in two separate enzyme complexes isolated from Trichoderma harzianum E58.	Two enzyme complexes, each with beta-glucosidase (beta-D-glucoside glucohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.21), beta-xylosidase (beta-D-xylan xylohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.37), and 1,3-beta-glucanase (laminarinase, EC 3.2.1.39) activity, were purified to near homogeneity from the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma harzianum E58. The two complexes had the same isoelectric point of pH 8.3 and identical subunit molecular masses of 75,400 daltons. The two complexes were also similar in that all activities were sensitive to inhibition by mercuric chloride (2 mM) and D-glucono-1,5-lactone (0.2% w/v). The activity ratios of the major and minor complexes were 1:1.7:4.3 and 1:1.6:3.1 for the beta-xylosidase, beta-glucosidase, and 1,3-beta-glucanase, respectively. Both complexes had approximately the same Km values for p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside and salicin. The pH optima of corresponding activities of the two complexes were also similar. The major and minor complexes differed in that the Km of the former for laminarin was almost threefold lower than that of the latter. Whereas all three activities of the minor complexes were inhibited by D-glucono-1,5-lactone with the same inhibition constant, the beta-glucosidase and 1,3-beta-glucanase of the major complex had inhibition constants which differed by more than 80,000 times. In addition, the inhibition on the 1,3-beta-glucanase in the major and minor complexes using D-glucono-1,5-lactone were noncompetitive and competitive, respectively. From the inhibition studies, the beta-glucosidase, beta-xylosidase, and 1,3-beta-glucanase activities in the minor complex were deduced to be more interdependent than the same activities in the major complex. 
18155804	20071225	J._Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Water stress and cell wall polysaccharides in the apical root zone of wheat cultivars varying in drought tolerance.	Glycosyl composition and linkage analysis of cell wall polysaccharides were examined in apical root zones excised from water-stressed and unstressed wheat seedlings (Triticum durum Desf.) cv. Capeiti ("drought-tolerant") and cv. Creso ("drought sensitive"). Wall polysaccharides were sequentially solubilized to obtain three fractions: CDTA+Na(2)CO(3) extract, KOH extract and the insoluble residue (alpha-cellulose). A comparison between the two genotypes showed only small variations in the percentages of matrix polysaccharides (CDTA+Na(2)CO(3) plus KOH extract) and of the insoluble residues (alpha-cellulose) in water-stressed and unstressed conditions. Xylosyl, glucosyl and arabinosyl residues represented more than 90 mol% of the matrix polysaccharides. The linkage analysis of matrix polysaccharides showed high levels of xyloglucans (23-39 mol%), and arabinoxylans (38-48 mol%) and a low amount of pectins and (1-->3), (1-->4)-beta-D-glucans. The high level of xyloglucans was supported by the release of the diagnostic disaccharide isoprimeverose after Driselase digestion of KOH-extracted polysaccharides. In the "drought-tolerant" cv. Capeiti the mol% of side chains of rhamnogalacturonan I and II significantly increased in response to water stress, whereas in cv. Creso, this increase did not occur. The results support a role of the pectic side chains during water stress response in a drought-tolerant wheat cultivar. 
23271623	20121229	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Eplt4 proteinaceous elicitor produced in Pichia pastoris has a protective effect against Cercosporidium sofinum infections of soybean leaves.	A complementary DNA library was constructed from the mycelium of Trichoderma asperellum T4, and a highly expressed gene fragment named EplT4 was found. In order to find a more efficient and cost-effective way of obtaining EplT4, this study attempted to produce EplT4 using a Pichia pastoris expression system. The gene encoding EplT4, with an additional 6-His tag at the C-terminus, was cloned into the yeast vector pPIC9K and expressed in the P. pastoris strain GS115 to obtaining more protein for the further research. Transformants of P. pastoris were selected by PCR analysis, and the ability to secrete high levels of the EplT4 protein was determined. The optimal conditions for induction were assayed using the shake flask method and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The yield of purified EplT4 was approximately 20 mg/L by nickel affinity chromatography and gel-filtration chromatography. Western blot and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometer analysis revealed that the recombinant EplT4 was expressed in both its monomers and dimers. Soybean leaves treated with the EplT4 monomer demonstrated the induction of glucanase, chitinase III-A, cysteine proteinase inhibitor, and peroxidase genes. Early cellular events in plant defense response were also observed after incubation with EplT4. Soybean leaves protected by EplT4 against the pathogen Cercosporidium sofinum (Hara) indicated that EplT4 produced in P. pastoris was biologically active and would be potentially useful for improving food security. 
8901566	19961029	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	The cellulose-binding domain of the major cellobiohydrolase of Trichoderma reesei exhibits true reversibility and a high exchange rate on crystalline cellulose.	Cellulose-binding domains (CBDs) bind specifically to cellulose, and form distinct domains of most cellulose degrading enzymes. The CBD-mediated binding of the enzyme has a fundamental role in the hydrolysis of the solid cellulose substrate. In this work we have investigated the reversibility and kinetics of the binding of the CBD from Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I on microcrystalline cellulose. The CBD was produced in Escherichia coli, purified, and radioactively labeled by reductive alkylation with 3H. Sensitive detection of the labeled CBD allowed more detailed analysis of its behavior than has been possible before, and important novel features were resolved. Binding of the CBD was found to be temperature sensitive, with an increased affinity at lower temperatures. The interaction of the CBD with cellulose was shown to be fully reversible and the CBD could be eluted from cellulose by simple dilution. The rate of exchange measured for the CBD-cellulose interaction compares well with the hydrolysis rate of cellobiohydrolase I, which is consistent with its proposed mode of action as a processive exoglucanase. 
23898996	20130801	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Evaluation of Streptomyces spp. for their plant-growth-promotion traits in rice.	Five strains of Streptomyces (CAI-17, CAI-68, CAI-78, KAI-26, and KAI-27) were previously reported to have potential for charcoal rot control and plant growth promotion (PGP) in sorghum. In this study, those 5 Streptomyces strains were characterized for their enzymatic activities and evaluated for their PGP capabilities on rice. All the Streptomyces strains were able to produce lipase and β-1,3-glucanase; grew in NaCl (up to 8%), at pH 5-13, and at temperatures 20-40 °C; and were resistant to ampicillin, sensitive to nalidixic acid, and highly sensitive to chloramphenicol, kanamycin, streptomycin, and tetracycline. They were highly tolerant to the fungicide bavistin but were highly sensitive to benlate, benomyl, and radonil. When evaluated on rice in the field, Streptomyces significantly enhanced tiller and panicle numbers, stover and grain yields, dry matter, root length, volume and dry weight, compared with the control. In the rhizosphere at harvest, microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen, dehydrogenase activity, total nitrogen, available phosphorus, and % organic carbon were also found significantly higher in Streptomyces-treated plots than in the control plots. This study further confirms that the selected Streptomyces have PGP activities.  
6777367	19801201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Regulation of the cellulolytic system in Trichoderma reesei by sophorose: induction of cellulase and repression of beta-glucosidase.	Sophorose has two regulatory roles in the production of cellulase enzymes in Trichoderma reesei: beta-glucosidase repression and cellulase induction. Sophorose also is hydrolyzed by the mycelial-associated beta-glucosidase. Repression of beta-glucosidase reduces sophorose hydrolysis and thus may increase cellulase induction. 
24117652	20131015	New_Phytol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Profiling functions of ectomycorrhizal diversity and root structuring in seedlings of Norway spruce (Picea abies) with fast- and slow-growing phenotypes.	We studied the role of taxonomical and functional ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungal diversity in root formation and nutrient uptake by Norway spruce (Picea abies) seedlings with fast- and slow-growing phenotypes. Seedlings were grown with an increasing ECM fungal diversity gradient from one to four species and sampled before aboveground growth differences between the two phenotypes were apparent. ECM fungal colonization patterns were determined and functional diversity was assayed via measurements of potential enzyme activities of eight exoenzymes probably involved in nutrient mobilization. Phenotypes did not vary in their receptiveness to different ECM fungal species. However, seedlings of slow-growing phenotypes had higher fine-root density and thus more condensed root systems than fast-growing seedlings, but the potential enzyme activities of ectomycorrhizas did not differ qualitatively or quantitatively. ECM species richness increased host nutrient acquisition potential by diversifying the exoenzyme palette. Needle nitrogen content correlated positively with high chitinase activity of ectomycorrhizas. Rather than fast- and slow-growing phenotypes exhibiting differing receptiveness to ECM fungi, our results suggest that distinctions in fine-root structuring and in the belowground growth strategy already apparent at early stages of seedling development may explain later growth differences between fast- and slow-growing families.  
1034498	19761201	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Activation and killing of Dictyostelium discoideum spores with urea.	The optimal conditions for activation of Dictyostellium discoideum spores are an 8 M urea treatment for 30 min. The lag between activation and swelling is 45 min. Lower concentrations of urea do not activate entire spore populations. Incubating spores in 8 M urea for 60 min or treatment with 10 M urea for 30 min results in a lengthening of the post-activation lag and a decrease in the final percentage of germination. Urea-activated spores can be deactivated by azide, cyanide, osmotic pressure, and low-temperature incubation. Activated spores do not germinate if incubated in 1 M urea for 24 h but will complete germination upon resuspension in urea-free buffer. Shocking spores at 45 degrees C in 8 M urea or incubating spores in 4-8 M urea for 10 h at 23.5 degrees C causes inactivation. When suspended in urea-free buffer, a larger percentage of these dead spores release spheroplasts through a longitudinal split in the spore case. Sequential enzyme treatment of spheroplasts with cellulase and pronase causes them to release lysable protoplasts. The data of these experiments suggest that shedding of the outer and middle wall layers during physiological spore swelling may be a physical process rather than an enzymatic one. 
20018766	20091219	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Systems analysis of plant cell wall degradation by the model filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa.	The filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa is a model laboratory organism, but in nature is commonly found growing on dead plant material, particularly grasses. Using functional genomics resources available for N. crassa, which include a near-full genome deletion strain set and whole genome microarrays, we undertook a system-wide analysis of plant cell wall and cellulose degradation. We identified approximately 770 genes that showed expression differences when N. crassa was cultured on ground Miscanthus stems as a sole carbon source. An overlap set of 114 genes was identified from expression analysis of N. crassa grown on pure cellulose. Functional annotation of up-regulated genes showed enrichment for proteins predicted to be involved in plant cell wall degradation, but also many genes encoding proteins of unknown function. As a complement to expression data, the secretome associated with N. crassa growth on Miscanthus and cellulose was determined using a shotgun proteomics approach. Over 50 proteins were identified, including 10 of the 23 predicted N. crassa cellulases. Strains containing deletions in genes encoding 16 proteins detected in both the microarray and mass spectrometry experiments were analyzed for phenotypic changes during growth on crystalline cellulose and for cellulase activity. While growth of some of the deletion strains on cellulose was severely diminished, other deletion strains produced higher levels of extracellular proteins that showed increased cellulase activity. These results show that the powerful tools available in N. crassa allow for a comprehensive system level understanding of plant cell wall degradation mechanisms used by a ubiquitous filamentous fungus. 
2261987	19901126	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 	K-252a inhibits the response of tomato cells to fungal elicitors in vivo and their microsomal protein kinase in vitro.	Two characteristic responses of plant cells to fungal elicitors, induction of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase activity and of ethylene biosynthesis, were studied in suspension-cultured tomato cells. Induction of both responses was completely blocked by 500 nM K-252a, a known inhibitor of mammalian protein kinases. About 100 nM K-252a caused half-maximal inhibition. In vitro, K-252a inhibited protein kinase activity in microsomal preparations from tomato cells. Inhibition was competitive with respect to ATP and had a Ki of about 15 nM. Thus, protein kinases sensitive to K-252a occur in plants and might be important for the plant's response to fungal elicitors. 
7582030	19951001	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Aspergillus fumigatus antigens.	Cytosolic fractions of mycelial extracts from Aspergillus nidulans, A. flavus, and three different isolates of A. fumigatus, grown to stationary phase in Czapek-Dox-AOAC medium, were tested by immunoblotting for the presence of antigens reactive to 80 serum samples from aspergilloma patients. Fifty control serum samples were used to determine the specificity of the reactions. In the A. fumigatus cytosolic fraction a group of four main antigenic bands (p90, p60, p40 and p37) was consistently recognized (in total or partial form) by 90% of the serum samples from the aspergilloma patients. This group of antigens was designated as the 'cytosolic fraction complex' (CFC). As confirmed by two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by immunoblotting with aspergilloma serum samples, each of the four antigenic bands is formed of several isoforms of acidic glycopeptides with slightly different pls. All the isoforms are at least N-glycosylated, as demonstrated by endoglycosidase H removal of a considerable amount of sugar residues. The relationship of these antigens with certain other A. fumigatus antigens previously reported in the literature, and their potential use in the immunodiagnosis of aspergilloma, are discussed. 
8789337	19951201	Int._J._Biol._Macromol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Cell-wall polysaccharides in growing poplar bark tissue.	In order to study changes in the cell-wall composition of growing poplar cambium during the seasonal cycle, cell walls were isolated from the cambium and newly formed vascular tissues of poplar branches at three times during the year (winter, beginning of spring, end of summer). Polysaccharide material was isolated by sequential extraction of the cell walls and analysed. The principal polysaccharides identified were pectins and xylose- and glucose-containing polysaccharides, possibly xylans and (xylo)glucans. Our results indicate changes in the relative quantities of these polysaccharides during the seasonal cycle. 
22402470	20120310	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and constitutive expression of His-tagged xylanase GH 11 from Penicillium occitanis Pol6 in Pichia pastoris X33: purification and characterization.	High-level constitutive expression of xylanase GH11 from Penicillium occitanis Pol6 termed PoXyn2 was achieved using the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. The PoXyn2 cDNA encoding for a mature xylanase of 320 amino acids was subcloned into the pGAPZαA vector, to construct recombinant xylanse with six histidine residues at the N-terminal and further integrated into the genome of P. pastoris X-33 under the control of the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAP) constitutive promoter. Activity assay and SDS-PAGE demonstrate that the His-tagged xylanase was extracellularly expressed in P. pastoris and purified to homogeneity by a simple, one-step purification protocol using immobilized metal affinity chromatography (Ni-NTA resin). The purified PoXyn2 showed a single band on SDS-PAGE with an apparent molecular weight of 30 kDa. The xylanase activity was optimal at pH 3.0 and 50°C. The specific activity measured for Oat Spelt Xylan was 8549.85 U mg(-1). The apparent The K(M) and V(max) values were 8.33±0.7 mg ml(-1)and 58.82±0.9 μmol min(-1) ml(-1), respectively, as measured on Oat Spelt Xylan. This is the first report demonstrating the possibility of mass production of P. occitanis xylanase using P. pastoris. 
12630320	20030313	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of two beta-glucosidases from the thermophilic fungus Thermoascus aurantiacus.	beta-Glucosidase from the fungus Thermoascus aurantiacus grown on semi-solid fermentation medium (using ground corncob as substrate) was partially purified in 5 steps--ultrafiltration, ethanol precipitation, gel filtration and 2 anion exchange chromatography runs, and characterized. After the first anion exchange chromatography, beta-glucosidase activity was eluted in 3 peaks (Gl-1, Gl-2, Gl-3). Only the Gl-2 and Gl-3 fractions were adsorbed on the gel matrix. Gl-2 and Gl-3 exhibited optimum pH at 4.5 and 4.0, respectively. The temperature optimum of both glucosidases was at 75-80 degrees C. The pH stability of Gl-2 (4.0-9.0) was higher than Gl-3 (5.5-8.5); both enzyme activities showed similar patterns of thermostability. Under conditions of denaturing gel chromatography the molar mass of Gl-2 and Gl-3 was 175 and 157 kDa, respectively. Using 4-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside as substrate, Km values of 1.17 +/- 0.35 and 1.38 +/- 0.86 mmol/L were determined for Gl-2 and Gl-3, respectively. Both enzymes were inhibited by Ag+ and stimulated by Ca2+. 
22981621	20120918	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Improved cellulase production via disruption of PDE01641 in cellulolytic fungus Penicillium decumbens.	To investigate the function of PDE01641, the homologue of Neurospora crassa NCU05137, during cellulase production in Penicillium decumbens, the PDE01641 encoding gene was knocked out in the present work. The PDE01641 deletion mutant showed enhanced cellobiohydrolase activity and β-glucosidase activity compared to the parental strain 114-2. Increased transcription of the main cellulase and hemicellulase genes in ΔPDE01641 gave evidence that PDE01641 might affect the process associated with the regulation of cellulolytic enzymes expression. Furthermore, the deletion of PDE01641 from the genome of hypercellulolytic industrial strain JU-A10-T resulted in 36% and 80% increase in cellulase activity and hemicellulase activity respectively. These results revealed that PDE01641 plays an important role in the regulation of cellulolytic enzyme production in P. decumbens, and the engineering strain constructed in this work could be potentially used in bioenergy production. 
11472518	20010727	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of pectin lyase produced by an endophytic strain isolated from coffee cherries.	The effect of endophytic bacterial activity on the quality of coffee beverage was studied. A survey of the micro-organisms in coffee cherries was performed before harvesting, and their growth on the main nutrients available in coffee cherries was determined in vitro. Many endophytic bacteria were isolated from surface-sterilized coffee cherries. One of the pectinolytic strains was physiologically and phenotypically characterized, and was tentatively identified by partial 16S rDNA sequencing as Paenibacillus amylolyticus. This endophytic strain produced an extracellular pectinase with maximal activity at 40 degrees C and pH 7.9, and was thermostable up to 45 degrees C. EDTA and metal ions had little effect on pectin lyase activity. Km and Vmax values were 4.6 mg ml(-1) and 94.0 10(-8) mol min(-1) ml(-1), respectively. Pectin lyases have been found in fungi but rarely in bacteria, and this isolate is a promising tool for regulation studies of these enzymes. 
12892639	20030802	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Investigating the role of a Verticillium fungicola beta-1,6-glucanase during infection of Agaricus bisporus using targeted gene disruption.	Studies on the mycopathogen Verticillium fungicola have shown the up-regulation of beta-1,6-glucanases when grown in the presence of host cell walls and host cell wall components including chitin. These cell-wall-degrading enzymes are hypothesized to contribute to the pathogenic ability of mycopathogens. A beta-1,6-glucanase gene, VfGlu1, showing high similarity to beta-1,6-glucanase genes from Hypocrea virens, Neotyphodium sp., and Trichoderma harzianum, was isolated using degenerate PCR from V. fungicola, a serious mycopathogen of the cultivated mushroom Agaricus bisporus. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of V. fungicola using homologous DNA from VfGlu1 resulted in homologous integration at the VfGlu1 locus in 75% of transformants, generating mutants disrupted in the VfGlu1 gene. VfGlu1 mutants displayed reduced virulence and diminished ability to utilize chitin as a carbon source, implicating VfGlu1 in the disease process. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation affords an efficient technique for the disruption of genes associated with disease symptom development in the complex V. fungicola-A. bisporus interaction. 
16328738	20051206	Protein_J.	D016428 	Characterization of active Lentinula edodes glucoamylase expressed and secreted by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The gene encoding Lentinula edodes glucoamylase (GLA) was cloned into Saccharomyces cerevisiae, expressed constitutively and secreted in an active form. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity by (NH4)2SO4 fractionation, anion exchange and affinity chromatography. The protein had a correct N-terminal sequence of WAQSSVIDAYVAS, indicating that the signal peptide was efficiently cleaved. The recombinant enzyme was glycosylated with a 2.4% carbohydrate content. It had a pH optimum of 4.6 and a pH 3.4-6.4 stability range. The temperature optimum was 50 degrees C with stability <or=50 degrees C. The enzyme showed considerable loss of activity when incubated with glucose (44%), glucosamine (68%), galactose (22%), and xylose (64%). The addition of Mn++ activated the enzyme by 45%, while Li+, Zn++, Mg++, Cu+, Ca++, and EDTA had no effect. The enzyme hydrolyzed amylopectin at rates 1.5 and 8.0 times that of soluble starch and amylose, respectively. Soluble starch was hydrolyzed 16 and 29 times faster than wheat and corn starch granules, respectively, with the hydrolysis of starch granules using 10x the amount of GLA. Apparent Km and Vmax for soluble starch were estimated to be 3.0 mg/ml and 0.13 mg/ml/min (40 degrees C, pH 5.3), with an apparent kcat of 2.9 x 10(5) min(-1). 
12927024	20030821	Biotechnol._Appl._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 	Expression of GAL genes in a mutant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae lacking GAL80: quantitative model and experimental verification.	The regulatory network of GAL genes is a model system for the production of foreign proteins. A mathematical model based on steady state was developed for the expression of GAL (galactosidase) genes in a mutant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae lacking GAL80. The transcriptional and translational responses of the GAL switch were predicted at various steady-state glucose concentrations. The model predicted ultrasensitive transcriptional response with a Hill coefficient ( h ) of 1.9 and 3.2 for genes with one and two binding sites respectively. Further, a lesser degree of ultrasensitivity was predicted for translational response with an h value of 1.3 for genes with one binding site and 2.1 for genes with two binding sites. The ultrasensitivity was due to dimerization of regulatory protein Gal4p and co-operative binding of Gal4p to DNA. The steady-state predictions were experimentally verified through measurements of alpha-galactosidase (for one binding site) and beta-galactosidase (for two binding sites). The steady state model was further extended to represent the dynamic expression profile and the same was verified experimentally. The growth phase and the synthesis of foreign protein could be distinctly separated using a mutant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (baker's yeast). 
19800970	20091006	Res._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Differential immunoproteomics enables identification of Metarhizium anisopliae proteins related to Rhipicephalus microplus infection.	Differential immunoproteomics was applied to identify proteins secreted by Metarhizium anisopliae induced by the Rhipicephalus microplus cuticle. In addition, IgG anti-spore surface proteins were used for searching for proteins possibly involved in early stages of fungus versus tick infection. LC-MS/MS of differentially secreted proteins led to the identification of proteases (carboxypeptidase and Pr1A), chitinase, carboxylic acid transport and proline-rich protein. Differential immunoproteomics strategy facilitated the detection and the identification of new proteins related to M. anisopliae host-pathogen interaction and could be used in further works to identify novel proteins related to other microbial infection systems. 
17408952	20070406	Bioresour._Technol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparison of Penicillium echinulatum and Trichoderma reesei cellulases in relation to their activity against various cellulosic substrates.	Penicillium echinulatum has been identified as a potential cellulase producer for bioconversion processes but its cellulase system has never been investigated in detail. In this work, the volumetric activities of P. echinulatum cellulases were determined against filter paper (0.27 U/mL), carboxymethylcellulose (1.53 U/mL), hydroxyethylcellulose (4.68 U/mL), birchwood xylan (3.16 U/mL), oat spelt xylan (3.29 U/mL), Sigmacell type 50 (0.10 U/mL), cellobiose (0.19 U/mL), and p-nitrophenyl-glucopiranoside (0.31 U/mL). These values were then expressed in relation to the amount of protein and compared those of Trichoderma reesei cellulases (Celluclast 1.5L FG, Novozymes). Both enzyme complexes were shown to have similar total cellulase and xylanase activities. Analysis of substrate hydrolysates demonstrated that P. echinulatum enzymes have higher beta-glucosidase activity than Celluclast 1.5L FG, while the latter appears to have greater cellobiohydrolase activity. Unlike Celluclast 1.5L FG, P. echinulatum cellulases had enough beta-glucosidase activity to remove most of the cellobiose produced in hydrolysis experiments. However, Celluclast 1.5L FG became more powerful than P. echinulatum cellulases when supplemented with exogenous beta-glucosidase activity (Novozym 188). Both cellulase complexes displayed the same influence over the degree of polymerization of cellulose, revealing that hydrolyzes were carried out under the typical endo-exo synergism of fungal enzymes. 
18923855	20081017	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of xylanase by Aspergilli using alternative carbon sources: application of the crude extract on cellulose pulp biobleaching.	The ability of xylanolytic enzymes produced by Aspergillus fumigatus RP04 and Aspergillus niveus RP05 to promote the biobleaching of cellulose pulp was investigated. Both fungi grew for 4-5 days in liquid medium at 40 degrees C, under static conditions. Xylanase production was tested using different carbon sources, including some types of xylans. A. fumigatus produced high levels of xylanase on agricultural residues (corncob or wheat bran), whereas A. niveus produced more xylanase on birchwood xylan. The optimum temperature of the xylanases from A. fumigatus and A. niveus was around 60-70 degrees C. The enzymes were stable for 30 min at 60 degrees C, maintaining 95-98% of the initial activity. After 1 h at this temperature, the xylanase from A. niveus still retained 85% of initial activity, while the xylanase from A. fumigatus was only 40% active. The pH optimum of the xylanases was acidic (4.5-5.5). The pH stability for the xylanase from A. fumigatus was higher at pH 6.0-8.0, while the enzyme from A. niveus was more stable at pH 4.5-6.5. Crude enzymatic extracts were used to clarify cellulose pulp and the best result was obtained with the A. niveus preparation, showing kappa efficiency around 39.6% as compared to only 11.7% for that of A. fumigatus. 
15184583	20040609	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 	Molecular characterization of protein O-mannosyltransferase and its involvement in cell-wall synthesis in Aspergillus nidulans.	Protein O-glycosylation is essential for protein modification and plays important roles in eukaryotic cells. O-Mannosylation of proteins occurs in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus. The structure and function of the pmtA gene, encoding protein O-d-mannosyltransferase, which is responsible for the initial O-mannosylation reaction in Aspergillus nidulans, was characterized. Disruption of the pmtA gene resulted in the reduction of in vitro protein O-d-mannosyltransferase activity to 6 % of that of the wild-type strain and led to underglycosylation of an extracellular glucoamylase. The pmtA disruptant exhibited abnormal cell morphology and alteration in carbohydrate composition, particularly reduction in the skeletal polysaccharides in the cell wall. The results indicate that PmtA is required for the formation of a normal cell wall in A. nidulans. 
22133362	20111203	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of a novel chitinase gene from Paecilomyces thermophila expressed in Escherichia coli.	A novel chitinase gene (PtChiA) from the thermophilic fungus Paecilomyces thermophila was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli as an intracellular soluble protein. The gene sequence alignment indicates that PtChiA belongs to glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 18 and has an open reading frame comprising of 1473 bp nucleotide sequences with five introns. PtChiA encodes 400 amino acids without any predicted signal peptide. PtChiA was purified by Ni-IDA chromatography. It displayed an acidic optimum pH of 4.5 and broad pH stability (pH 4.0-10.5). The enzyme exhibited an optimal temperature of 50°C and was stable up to 40°C. PtChiA was strongly inhibited by anionic detergent SDS, and also by metal ions Hg(2+) and Mn(2+). It did not exhibit any antifungal activity against pathogenic fungi. It has the ability to hydrolyze colloidal chitin into chito-oligomers suggesting its use in conversion of chitin waste into chito-oligosaccharides. 
6538780	19840101	Arch._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Sophorose induction of an intracellular b-glucosidase in Trichoderma.	The disaccharide sophorose induces Trichoderma to increase a soluble intracellular b-glucosidase that hydrolyses cellobiose, sophorose, and p-nitrophenyl-b-D-glucopyranoside. Simultaneously, it depresses the activity of a similar insoluble enzyme that is associated with the mycelium. Gel electrophoresis indicates that a single enzyme is responsible for all the soluble intracellular b-glucosidase activity. Cycloheximide severely inhibits sophorose induction of this enzyme indicating that the increase in activity normally obtained with sophorose is due to the de novo formation of the enzyme. The same sugars that promote the formation and release of cellulase by Trichoderma induce an increase in the soluble intracellular b-glucosidase. A function of the soluble intracellular enzyme appears to be the hydrolysis of cellobiose, which would otherwise accumulate during cellulose degradation, and thus to prevent cellobiose inhibition of cellulase. 
11741899	20011214	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase shows binding activity toward N-linked oligosaccharides of glycoproteins.	Porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase was shown by interaction analyses using a resonance mirror detector and alpha-amylase-immobilized Sepharose to bind with glycoproteins possessing N-glycans but not O-linked mucin-type glycans. Direct binding of three types of N-glycans to the alpha-amylase was demonstrated by surface plasmon resonance. Binding with biotin-polymer sugar probes revealed that the alpha-amylase has affinity to alpha-mannose, alpha-N-acetylneuraminic acid, and beta-N-acetyllactosamine, which are components of N-glycans. The binding of glycoproteins or carbohydrates enhanced the enzyme activity, indicating that the recognition site for N-glycans is different from its catalytic site. The binding activity was unique to porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase and was not observed for alpha-amylase from saliva, wheat, and fungus. 
8920187	19960301	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Temperature-regulated expression of the tac/lacl system for overproduction of a fungal xylanase in Escherichia coli.	Temperature-regulated expression of recombinant proteins in the tac promoter (Ptac) system was investigated. Expression levels of fungal xylanase and cellulase from N. patriciarum in E. coli strains containing the natural lacI gene under the control of the Ptac markedly increased with increasing cultivation temperature in the absence of a chemical inducer. The specific activities (units per milligram protein of crude enzyme) of the fungal xylanase and cellulase produced from recombinant E. coli strain pop2136 grown at 42 degrees C were about 4.5 times higher than those of the cells grown at 23 degrees C and were even slightly higher when compared with cells grown in the presence of the inducer isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside. The xylanase expression level in the temperature-regulated Ptac system was about 35% of total cellular protein. However, this system can not be applied to E. coli strains containing lacIq, which confers over production of the lac repressor, for high-level expression of recombinant proteins. In comparison with the lambda PL system, the Ptac-based xylanase plasmid in E. coli pop2136 gave a considerably higher specific activity of the xylanase than did the best lambda PL-based construct using the same thermal induction procedure. The high-level expression of the xylanase using the temperature-regulated Ptac system was also obtained in 10-litre fermentation studies using a fed-batch process. These results unambiguously demonstrated that the temperature-modulated Ptac system can be used for overproduction of some non-toxic recombinant proteins. 
4165671	19670701	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Fine structure of quiescent and germinating aeciospores of Cronartium fusiforme.	Aeciospores of the long-cycle heteroecious rust fungus, Cronartium fusiforme, were found to have an extremely thick cell wall with striking spicules protruding from it. The wall was readily degraded by commercial chitinase, but spicules were unaffected. Quiescent spores contained two nuclei with distinct nuclear membranes possessing many pores. Numerous membrane-bounded lipid bodies were found both in wild-type orange and in white mutant aeciospores. An abundance of irregularly ovoid mitochondria was present in quiescent spores. After glutaraldehydeosmium fixation, the surface of the mitochondria appeared to be covered with ribosomes or microtubules in a paracrystalline array, whereas after permanganate fixation only smooth outer mitochondrial membranes were noted. The latter fixative revealed abundant vesicular endoplasmic reticulum in the spore. Spores incubated at 20 C on agar produced one to five distinct germ tubes within 65 to 180 min. These thin-walled tubes exhibited varying degrees of branching, and reached a total hyphal length of 300 to 500 mu prior to rupturing. Emergence of germ tubes took place through a pore in the spore wall and appeared to be mainly a physical flowing of cytoplasm from the spore into the germ tube without division of nuclei or other cell organelles. On completion of germination, the protoplasm of the germ tube contained both nuclei and nearly all of the other spore contents. Mitochondria had smooth outer membranes, were greatly elongated, and possessed distinct longitudinal cristae. A limited amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum was arranged parallel to the germ tube wall. Other organelles seen in germ tubes were lipid bodies, concentric membrane figures, and numerous ribosomes. Lipid bodies appeared smaller and fewer in number than in quiescent spores. 
16668007	19910201	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	The Latex of Hevea brasiliensis Contains High Levels of Both Chitinases and Chitinases/Lysozymes.	The latex of the commercial rubber tree, Hevea brasiliensis, was fractionated by ultracentrifugation as described by G. F. J. Moir ([1959] Nature 184: 1626-1628) into a top layer of rubber particles, a cleared cytoplasm, and a pellet that contains primarily specialized vacuoles known as lutoids. The proteins in each fraction were resolved by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Both the pellet fraction and cleared cytoplasm contained large amounts of relatively few proteins, suggesting that laticifers serve a very specialized function in the plant. More than 75% of the total soluble protein in latex was found in the pellet fraction. Twenty-five percent of the protein in the pellet was identified as chitinases/lysozymes, which are capable of degrading the chitin component of fungal cell walls and the peptidoglycan component of bacterial cell walls. Both the chitinase and lysozyme activities were localized exclusively in the pellet or lutoid fraction. The chitinases/lysozymes were resolved into acidic and basic classes of proteins and further purified. An acidic protein (molecular mass 25.5 kD) represented 20% of the chitinase activity in latex; this protein lacked the low level of lysozyme activity that is associated with many plant chitinases. Six basic proteins, having both chitinase and lysozyme activities in various ratios and molecular mass of 27.5 or 26 kD, were resolved. Two of the basic proteins had very high lysozyme specific activities which were comparable to the specific activities reported for animal lysozymes. Like animal lysozymes, but unlike previously characterized plant chitinases/lysozymes, these basic chitinases/lysozymes were also capable of completely lysing or clearing suspensions of bacterial cell walls. These results suggest that laticifers may serve a defensive role in the plant. 
17092709	20061110	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Fungal biosynthesis of endochitinase and chitobiase in solid state fermentation and their application for the production of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine from colloidal chitin.	The present study was directed to the production of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine using endochitinase and chitobiase from fungal cultures in solid culturing. Fifteen fungal strains were evaluated for endochitinase and chitobiase production under solid-state fermentation using agro-industrial residues, of which Penicillium aculeatum NRRL 2129 showed maximum endochitinase activity whereas Trichoderma harzianum TUBF 927 showed maximum chitobiase activity. Eleven substrates, alone and in combination with chitin, were evaluated for the enzyme production. Optimization of physico-chemical parameters such as incubation period and initial moisture content, and nutritional parameters such as chitin source, inorganic and organic nitrogen sources, were carried out. Optimization resulted in more than 3-fold increase in endochitinase production (from 3.5 to 12.53 U/g dry weight of substrate) and about 1.5-fold increase in chitobiase production (from 1.6 to 2.25 U/g dry weight of substrate). Studies on the degradation of colloidal chitin to N-acetyl-D-glucosamine showed improved efficiency when endochitinase and chitobiase were used in combination. 
24430239	20140117	Bioengineered	D016428 D052061 D016454 	Engineering microbial surfaces to degrade lignocellulosic biomass.	Renewable lignocellulosic plant biomass is a promising feedstock from which to produce biofuels, chemicals, and materials. One approach to cost-effectively exploit this resource is to use consolidating bioprocessing (CBP) microbes that directly convert lignocellulose into valuable end products. Because many promising CBP-enabling microbes are non-cellulolytic, recent work has sought to engineer them to display multi-cellulase containing minicellulosomes that hydrolyze biomass more efficiently than isolated enzymes. In this review, we discuss progress in engineering the surfaces of the model microorganisms: Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We compare the distinct approaches used to display cellulases and minicellulosomes, as well as their surface enzyme densities and cellulolytic activities. Thus far, minicellulosomes have only been grafted onto the surfaces of B. subtilis and S. cerevisiae, suggesting that the absence of an outer membrane in fungi and Gram-positive bacteria may make their surfaces better suited for displaying the elaborate multi-enzyme complexes needed to efficiently degrade lignocellulose.  
1639777	19920805	J._Biol._Chem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Analysis of two novel classes of plant antifungal proteins from radish (Raphanus sativus L.) seeds.	Two novel classes of antifungal proteins were isolated from radish seeds. The first class consists of two homologous proteins (Rs-AFP1 and Rs-AFP2) that were purified to homogeneity. They are highly basic oligomeric proteins composed of small (5-kDa) polypeptides that are rich in cysteine. Both Rs-AFPs have a broad antifungal spectrum and are among the most potent antifungal proteins hitherto characterized. In comparison with many other plant antifungal proteins, the activity of the Rs-AFPs is less sensitive to the presence of cations. Moreover, their antibiotic activity shows a high degree of specificity to filamentous fungi. The amino-terminal regions of the Rs-AFPs show homology with the derived amino acid sequences of two pea genes specifically induced upon fungal attack, to gamma-thionins and to sorghum alpha-amylase inhibitors. The radish 2S storage albumins were identified as the second novel class of antifungal proteins. All isoforms inhibit growth of different plant pathogenic fungi and some bacteria. However, their antimicrobial activities are strongly antagonized by cations. 
22806786	20120719	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Induction of cellulase and hemicellulase activities of Thermoascus                      aurantiacus by xylan hydrolyzed products.	Thermoascus aurantiacus is able to secrete most of the hemicellulolytic and cellulolytic enzymes. To establish the xylanase inducers of T. aurantiacus, the mycelia were first grown on glucose up until the end of the exponential growth phase, followed by washing and re-suspension in a basal medium without a carbon source. Pre-weighed amounts of xylose (final concentration of 3.5 mg/ml), xylobiose (7 mg/ml) and hydrolyzed xylan from sugarcane bagasse (HXSB) which contained xylose, xylobiose and xylotriose (6.8 mg/ml) were evaluated as inducers of xylanase. It was observed that xylose did not suppress enzyme induction of T. aurantiacus when used in low concentrations, regardless of whether it was inoculated with xylobiose. Xylobiose promoted fast enzyme production stopping after 10 h, even at a low consumption rate of the carbon source; therefore xylobiose appears to be the natural inducer of xylanase. In HXSB only a negligible xylanase activity was determined. Xylose present in HXSB was consumed within the first 10 h while xylobiose was partially hydrolyzed at a slow rate. The profile of α-arabinofuranosidase induction was very similar in media induced with xylobiose or HXSB, but induction with xylose showed some positive effects as well. The production profile for the xylanase was accompanied by low levels of cellulolytic activity. In comparison, growth in HXSB resulted in different profiles of both xylanase and cellulase production, excluding the possibility of xylanase acting as endoglucanases. 
19552887	20090626	N_Biotechnol	D016428 D013485 	Cellulase production from Aspergillus niger MS82: effect of temperature and pH.	Fungal cellulases are well-studied enzymes and are used in various industrial processes. Much of the knowledge of enzymatic depolymerization of cellulosic material has come from Trichoderma cellulase system. Species of Trichoderma can produce substantial amounts of endoglucanase and exoglucanase but very low levels of b-glucosidase. This deficiency necessitates screening of fungi for cellulytic potential. A number of indigenously isolated fungi were screened for cellulytic potential. In the present study, the kinetics of cellulase production from an indigenous strain of Aspergillus niger MS82 is reported. Product formation parameters of endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase (Qp + Y(p/s)) indicate that A.niger MS82 is capable of producing moderate to high levels of both endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase when grown on different carbon containing natural substrates, for example, grass, corncob, bagasse along side purified celluloses. Furthermore, it was observed that the production of endoglucanase reaches its maximum during exponential phase of growth, while b-glucosidase during the Stationary phase. Enzyme production by solid-state fermentation was also investigated and found to be promising.Highest production of cellulase was noted at pH 4.0 at 35 degrees C under submerged conditions. Growth and enzyme production was affected by variations in temperature and pH. 
1320801	19920501	Yeast	D016428 	Development of a strain of Hansenula polymorpha for the efficient expression of guar alpha-galactosidase.	A strain of the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha, A16, has been developed that expresses the guar alpha-galactosidase gene to 22.4 mg/g dry cell weight in chemostat cultures at a dilution rate of 0.1 h(-1). This corresponds to more than 13.1% of soluble cell protein, of which 56-62% is secreted into the medium. The alpha-galactosidase gene was flanked by the promoter and terminator sequences of the H.polymorpha mox gene, which can direct expression of the mox gene itself more than 30% of total cell protein under methanol growth. The expression cassette (pUR3510) based on the Saccharomyces cerevisiae plasmid, YEp13, was integrated into the genome. Such transformants were stable in chemostat cultures and exhibited 100% stability for both alpha-galactosidase+ and leu+ phenotypes. Chemostat cultures produced higher levels of alpha-galactosidase with higher specific productivities expressed as mg alpha-galactosidase g(-1) h(-1) compared to batch cultures. 
23116628	20121103	Res._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Intracellular trehalase activity is required for development, germination and heat-stress resistance of Aspergillus niger conidia.	The disaccharide trehalose is known as a stress protectant in several kinds of organisms, including fungi, where it is a major carbohydrate in resting structures, e.g. asexual conidia. The gene encoding the enzyme responsible for degradation of intracellular trehalose, treB, was deleted and the phenotype was analyzed in terms of morphology, trehalose content during conidial outgrowth and stress tolerance. The mutant conidiophores produced fewer and less viable spores, and during early stages of germination the internal levels of trehalose were higher compared to the wild type. When subjecting the mutant to various stresses (weak acid and salt), no increased sensitivity could be observed, but in line with previous observations, e.g. in Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger ΔtreB spores in a very early stage of germination were less sensitive to heat stress. In contrast, when subjecting resting spores to 55 °C, an intact treB gene was essential for survival. This finding suggests that trehalose mobilization is required to facilitate cell recovery after heat-induced damage. 
23825576	20130705	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Biochemical characterization of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis α-1,3-glucanase Agn1p, and its functionality by heterologous Expression in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	α-1,3-Glucan is present as the outermost layer of the cell wall in the pathogenic yeastlike (Y) form of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. Based on experimental evidence, this polysaccharide has been proposed as a fungal virulence factor. To degrade α-1,3-glucan and allow remodeling of the cell wall, α-1,3-glucanase is required. Therefore, the study of this enzyme, its encoding gene, and regulatory mechanisms, might be of interest to understand the morphogenesis and virulence process in this fungus. A single gene, orthologous to other fungal α-1,3-glucanase genes, was identified in the Paracoccidioides genome, and labeled AGN1. Transcriptional levels of AGN1 and AGS1 (α-1,3-glucan synthase-encoding gene) increased sharply when the pathogenic Y phase was cultured in the presence of 5% horse serum, a reported booster for cell wall α-1,3-glucan synthesis in this fungus. To study the biochemical properties of P. brasiliensis Agn1p, the enzyme was heterologously overexpressed, purified, and its activity profile determined by means of the degradation of carboxymethyl α-1,3-glucan (SCMG, chemically modified from P. brasiliensis α-1,3-glucan), used as a soluble substrate for the enzymatic reaction. Inhibition assays, thin layer chromatography and enzymatic reactions with alternative substrates (dextran, starch, chitin, laminarin and cellulose), showed that Agn1p displays an endolytic cut pattern and high specificity for SCMG. Complementation of a Schizosaccharomyces pombe agn1Δ strain with the P. brasiliensis AGN1 gene restored the wild type phenotype, indicating functionality of the gene, suggesting a possible role of Agn1p in the remodeling of P. brasiliensis Y phase cell wall. Based on amino acid sequence, P. brasiliensis Agn1p, groups within the family 71 of fungal glycoside hydrolases (GH-71), showing similar biochemical characteristics to other members of this family. Also based on amino acid sequence alignments, we propose a subdivision of fungal GH-71 into at least five groups, for which specific conserved sequences can be identified.  
15610427	20041222	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of antifungal metabolite produced by a new strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa PUPa3 that exhibits broad-spectrum antifungal activity and biofertilizing traits.	To study the antifungal activity and plant beneficial traits of a broad-spectrum antagonistic fluorescent pseudomonad strain, PUPa3. Strain PUPa3 was isolated from the rhizosphere soil of rice and identified as Pseudomonas aeruginosa on the basis of biochemical tests and by comparison of 16S rDNA sequences. This bacterium exhibits a broad-spectrum antifungal activity towards phytopathogenic fungi. The antifungal metabolite by PUPa3 was extracted, purified and characterized using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and mass spectroscopy (MS). Production of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), siderophores, phosphatase and protease in PUPa3 was determined. Strain PUPa3 did not produce hydrogen cyanide, cellulase and pectinase. The antifungal metabolite produced by PUPa3 has been identified as phenazine-1-carboxamide (PCN) on the basis of NMR and MS data. Strain PUPa3 showed a broad-spectrum antifungal activity towards a range of phytopathogenic fungi. This bacterium also showed several plant growth-promoting traits but did not show the traits attributed to deleterious rhizobacteria. Present study reports the production of PCN as well as IAA for the first time by a saprophytic P. aeruginosa strain PUPa3. Because of the production of siderophore, growth hormone, protease and phosphatase and its innate fungicidal potential, this strain can be used as biofertilizer and antagonist against a range of phytopathogenic fungi that infect rice, groundnut, tobacco, chili, mango, sugarcane, tea, cotton and banana. 
16276899	20051110	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D023362 D016428 D013485 	[Chitosanase production in convoluted fibrous bed bioreactor with two-step process].	Chitosanase activity can be increased remarkably by a two-step process, in which, the growth of T. reesei was in the first step with glucose as carbon source and enzyme induction by D-glucosamine in the second step. With the novel process chitosanase activity produced was about 100% higher than that in the traditional one step process. Under the optimized culture conditions: aeration rate was 4L/min (2 vvm) and age of mycelia were 72 h, The activity of chitosanase produced by immobilized T. reesei in convoluted fibrous bed bioreactor(CFBB) was 246mU/mL which was about 39% higher than that with free cell culture in 5L CSTR under the same culture conditions. Furthermore, the novel bioreactor was also feasible to be operated in repeated batch mode. During 10 repeated-batch in 15 days, the average production of chitosanase activity to each batch was kept 235mU/mL. 
22974217	20120915	Int_J_Exp_Pathol	D016428 D013485 	Effect of cypermethrin, carbendazim and their combination on male albino rat serum.	Alpha-cypermethrin and carbendazim are synthetic; α-cypermethrin belongs to a class of synthetic pyrethroids and carbendazim belongs to the class of carbamate fungicides. The current study was carried out to evaluate the low-dose exposure of individual and mixed forms of cypermethrin and carbendazim. α-cypermethrin was used at 0.06, 0.12, 0.30 and 0.60 mg/kg  body weight (bw), carbendazim was at 0.48, 0.96, 2.4 and 4.8 mg/kg bw and combined doses (cypermethrin: 0.06, 0.12, 0.30 and 0.60 mg/kg.bwt + carbendazim: 0.48, 0.96, 2.4 and 4.8 mg/kg.bwt) for 12 h and 24 h. The biochemical parameters and serum markey enzymes were analysed. The biochemical parameters include serum total protein, glucose, cholesterol, urea, uric acid, calcium, phosphorous, albumin and creatinine and serum marker enzymes such as alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and amylase were ascertained. Results indicated simultaneous changes in serum marker enzyme activity (ALT, AST, ALP, GGT and amylase) and biochemical markers (*P < 0.05, **P < 0.01 and ***P < 0.001). The experimental results indicate that even low-dose use of the synthetic pyrethroid carbamate and their combined form results in consequential negative effects on cell function. 
9750341	19980929	Mycopathologia	D016428 	Activity of hydrolytic enzymes of Candida albicans strains isolated from patients with periodontal and membrane mucosae of oral cavity diseases.	Fungi are elements of the ontocenosis of the oral cavity and causal factors of inflammatory lesions in its mucous membrane. The objective of the study was to find differences in the activity of hydrolytic enzymes of Candida albicans isolated from patients with diseases of the periodontium and mucous membrane of the oral cavity. Of 235 patients examined, 31 were diagnosed with gingivitis, 38 with glossitis, 28 with leucoplakia, 37 with adult periodontitis, 25 with juvenile periodontitis, 36 stomatitis prothetica and 40 with stomatitis atrophica. In 196 patients (83.4 +/- 2.4%), fungi belonging to Candida species were detected. In the evaluation of Candida albicans strains (146) properties, bioMerieux API ZYM tests containing substrates for the detection of 19 hydrolases were used. All the investigated strains were characterized by the activity of 14 enzymes, i.e. phosphatase alcaline, esterase (C4), esterase lipase (C8), leucine and valine arylamidase, phosphatase acid, naphthol-AS-BI-phosphohydrolase, alpha galactosidase, beta galactosidase, alpha glucosidase, beta glucosidase, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, alpha mannosidase and alpha fucosidase. Strains isolated from the oral cavity of patients with disease of periodontium and mucous membrane are characterised by the highest phosphatase acid activity. The greatest enzymatic activity is characteristic of Candida albicans isolated from patients with stomatitis atrophica or stomatitis prothetica, and the lowest in strains from gingivitis or juvenile periodontitis cases. Differences in the activity of hydrolases are statistically significant (p < 0.01) for: esterase (C4), leucine and valine arylamidase, phosphatase acid, naphthol-AS-BI-phosphohydrolase, beta glucosidase, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, of fungi isolated from patients with particular clinical diagnoses. 
9204518	19970401	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Isotherms for adsorption of cellobiohydrolase I and II from Trichoderma reesei on microcrystalline cellulose.	Adsorption to microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel) of pure cellobiohydrolase I and II (CBH I and CBH II) from Trichoderma reesei has been studied. Adsorption isotherms of the enzymes were measured at 4 degrees C using CBH I and CBH II alone and in reconstituted equimolar mixtures. Several models (Langmuir, Freundlich, Temkin, Jovanovic) were tested to describe the experimental adsorption isotherms. The isotherms did not follow the basic (one site) Langmuir equation that has often been used to describe adsorption isotherms of cellulases; correlation coefficients (R2) were only 0.926 and 0.947, for CBH I and II, respectively. The experimental isotherms were best described by a model of Langmuir type with two adsorption sites and by a combined Langmuir-Freundlich model (analogous to the Hill equation); using these models the correlation coefficients were in most cases higher than 0.995. Apparent binding parameters derived from the two sites Langmuir model indicated stronger binding of CBH II compared to CBH I; the distribution coefficients were 20.7 and 3.7 L/g for the two enzymes, respectively. The binding capacity, on the other hand, was higher for CBH I, 1.0 mumol (67 mg) per gram Avicel, compared to 0.57 mumol/g (30 mg/g) for CBH II. The isotherms when analyzed with the combined Langmuir-Freundlich model indicated presence of unequal binding sites on cellulose and/or negative cooperatively in the binding of the enzyme molecules. 
11438761	20010705	Protein_Eng.	D016428 D013485 	New secretory strategies for Kluyveromyces lactis beta-galactosidase.	We examined several strategies for the secretion of Kluyveromyces lactis beta-galactosidase into the culture medium, in order to facilitate the downstream processing and purification of this intracellular enzyme of great industrial interest. We constructed plasmids by fusing the LAC4 gene or engineered variants to the secretion signal of the K.lactis killer toxin or to the secretion signal of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha-factor. With these plasmids we transformed strains of the yeasts K.lactis and S.cerevisiae, respectively and tested beta-galactosidase extracellular activity in different culture media. We achieved partial secretion of beta-galactosidase in the culture medium since the high molecular weight and oligomeric nature of the enzyme, among other factors, preclude full secretion. The percentage of secretion was improved by directed mutagenesis of the N-terminus of the protein. We developed several deletion mutants which helped us to propose structure-function relationships by comparison with the available data on the homologous Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase. The influence of the culture conditions on heterologous beta-galactosidase secretion was also studied. 
10206706	19990417	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 	Distribution of chitinase in guinea pig tissues and increases in levels of this enzyme after systemic infection with Aspergillus fumigatus.	Intravenous infection of guinea pigs with the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus resulted in increased levels of chitinase in serum and tissues of the animals. The molecular properties of the enzyme were demonstrated to be different from those of the fungal chitinase, but also from guinea pig lysozyme and beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase. Bio-Gel P-100 gel filtration showed that in liver, spleen, heart and lung tissue of control animals there were two molecular mass forms present with apparent molecular masses of 35 kDa and 15 kDa. In brain and serum, only the 35 kDa form was detectable. Kidney showed only the 15 kDa form. Upon infection the 35 kDa form appeared in kidney and increased in the other tissues. When a less pathogenic form of the fungus was used the 35 kDa form remained absent in kidney. In contrast to human serum chitinase, the enzyme from guinea pig serum and tissues did bind to concanavalin A-Sepharose. This was the case for both molecular mass forms. The mode of cleavage of the substrate 4-methylumbelliferyl-tri-N-acetylchitotrioside (MU-[GlcNAc]3, where GlcNAc is N-acetylglucosamine) by the two forms of the enzyme was the same: both [GlcNAc]2 and [GlcNAc]3 were released. The chitinase activity levels in the control tissues showed a large variation in this order: spleen > lung, kidney > liver > heart > brain. The fact that spleen showed the highest chitinase level is in agreement with its major role as a lymphoid organ in cases of systemic infections. The relative increases upon infection were the highest for the tissues that showed low control values. 
21470403	20110408	BMC_Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparison of expression, purification and characterization of a new pectate lyase from Phytophthora capsici using two different methods.	Pectate lyases (PELs) play an important role in the infection process of plant pathogens and also have a commercial significance in industrial applications. Most of the PELs were expressed as soluble recombinant proteins, while a few recombinant proteins were insoluble. The production of a large-scale soluble recombinant PEL would allow not only a more detailed structural and functional characterization of this enzyme but also may have important applications in the food industry. We cloned a new pectate lyase gene (Pcpel2) from Phytophthora capsici. Pcpel2 was constructed by pET system and pMAL system, and both constructs were used to express the PCPEL2 in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) pLysS. The expressed products were purified using affinity chromatography and gel filtration chromatography. The purity, specific activity and pathogenicity of the purified PCPEL2 expressed by the pMAL system were higher than the purified PCPEL2 expressed by the pET system. In addition, some other characteristics of the purified PCPEL2 differed from the two systems, such as crystallographic features. Purified PCPEL2 expressed by the pMAL system was crystallized by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method at 289 K, and initial crystals were grown. The two different methods and comparison presented here would be highly valuable in obtaining an ideal enzyme for the downstream experiments, and supply an useful alternative to purify some insoluble recombinant proteins. 
21716658	20110701	Int_J_Microbiol	D016428 	Production of β-Glucosidase from a Newly Isolated Aspergillus Species Using Response Surface Methodology.	A newly isolated fungus Aspergillus niger SOI017 was shown to be a good producer of β-glucosidase from all isolated fungal strains. Fermentation condition (pH, cellobiose concentration, yeast extract concentration, and ammonium sulfate concentration) was optimized for producing the enzyme in shake flask cultures. Response surface methodology was used to investigate the effects of 4 fermentation parameters (yeast extract concentration, cellobiose concentration, ammonium sulfate concentration, and pH) on β-glucosidase enzyme production. Production of β-glucosidase was most sensitive to the culture medium, especially the nitrogen source yeast extract. The optimized medium for producing maximum β-glucosidase specific activity consisted of 0.275% yeast extract, 1.125% cellobiose, and 2.6% ammonium sulfate at a pH value of 3. 
8061313	19940701	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 	Effect of chitinase antisense RNA expression on disease susceptibility of Arabidopsis plants.	Chitinases accumulate in higher plants upon pathogen attack are capable of hydrolyzing chitin-containing fungal cell walls and are thus implicated as part of the plant defense response to fungal pathogens. To evaluate the relative role of the predominate chitinase (class I, basic enzyme) of Arabidopsis thaliana in disease resistance, transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated that expressed antisense RNA to the class I chitinase. Young plants or young leaves of some plants expressing antisense RNA had < 10% of the chitinase levels of control plants. In the oldest leaves of these antisense plants, chitinase levels rose to 37-90% of the chitinase levels relative to vector control plants, most likely because of accumulation and storage of the enzyme in vacuoles. The rate of infection by the fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea was measured in detached leaves containing 7-15% of the chitinase levels of control plants prior to inoculation. Antisense RNA was not effective in suppressing induced chitinase expression upon infection as chitinase levels increased in antisense leaves to 47% of levels in control leaves within 24 hours after inoculation. Leaves from antisense plants became diseased at a slightly faster rate than leaves from control plants, but differences were not significant due to high variability. Although the tendency to increased susceptibility in antisense plants suggests that chitinases may slow the growth of invading fungal pathogens, the overall contribution of chitinase to the inducible defense responses in Arabidopsis remains unclear. 
22607229	20120522	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Overexpression of an exotic thermotolerant β-glucosidase in trichoderma reesei and its significant increase in cellulolytic activity and saccharification of barley straw.	Trichoderma reesei is a widely used industrial strain for cellulase production, but its low yield of β-glucosidase has prevented its industrial value. In the hydrolysis process of cellulolytic residues by T. reesei, a disaccharide known as cellobiose is produced and accumulates, which inhibits further cellulases production. This problem can be solved by adding β-glucosidase, which hydrolyzes cellobiose to glucose for fermentation. It is, therefore, of high vvalue to construct T. reesei strains which can produce sufficient β-glucosidase and other hydrolytic enzymes, especially when those enzymes are capable of tolerating extreme conditions such as high temperature and acidic or alkali pH. We successfully engineered a thermostable β-glucosidase gene from the fungus Periconia sp. into the genome of T. reesei QM9414 strain. The engineered T. reesei strain showed about 10.5-fold (23.9 IU/mg) higher β-glucosidase activity compared to the parent strain (2.2 IU/mg) after 24 h of incubation. The transformants also showed very high total cellulase activity (about 39.0 FPU/mg) at 24 h of incubation whereas the parent strain almost did not show any total cellulase activity at 24 h of incubation. The recombinant β-glucosidase showed to be thermotolerant and remains fully active after two-hour incubation at temperatures as high as 60°C. Additionally, it showed to be active at a wide pH range and maintains about 88% of its maximal activity after four-hour incubation at 25°C in a pH range from 3.0 to 9.0. Enzymatic hydrolysis assay using untreated, NaOH, or Organosolv pretreated barley straw as well as microcrystalline cellulose showed that the transformed T. reesei strains released more reducing sugars compared to the parental strain. The recombinant T. reesei overexpressing Periconia sp. β-glucosidase in this study showed higher β-glucosidase and total cellulase activities within a shorter incubation time (24 h) as well as higher hydrolysis activity using biomass residues. These features suggest that the transformants can be used for β-glucosidase production as well as improving the biomass conversion using cellulases. 
9400483	19971224	J._Urol.	D016428 	Constant elevation in renal pelvic pressure induces an increase in urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase in a nonobstructive porcine model.	To clarify the physiological significance of renal pelvic pressure elevations encountered in the evaluation of hydronephrotic kidney we examined the effects of different levels of renal pelvic pressure on the induction of renal injury. A nonobstructive porcine model was created in which the urine drained against a constant predetermined pressure gradient. Renal pelvic pressure of 10, 20 and 40 cm. was created in 2, 2 and 4 animals, respectively. During 18 to 23 hours serial urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase levels were determined as an indicator of renal tubular injury. Tissue specimens were examined histologically and renal arterial blood flow was monitored. Urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase levels in the kidneys subjected to 10 cm. water remained essentially unchanged. However, at 20 and 40 cm. water statistically significant increases were observed. Similarly, renal arterial blood flow was unchanged at 10 cm. water but it became significantly lower than in controls at 20 and 40 cm. water. Histological evaluation revealed mild to moderate tubular dilatation in the kidneys subjected to 20 and 40 cm. water. Excessively high collecting system pressure induced renal cellular injury, as reflected by an increase in urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase levels. While renal pelvic pressure up to 10 cm. water appeared to be innocuous, renal cellular injury was evident within as little as 1 hour at renal pelvic pressures 20 cm. water or greater. The degree of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase in the urine also correlated with a decrease in renal arterial blood flow. 
1897311	19910701	Yeast	D003160 D016428 	Analysis of the expression and secretion of the Candida tsukubaensis alpha-glucosidase gene in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The alpha-glucosidase gene of Candida tsukubaensis is contained within a 3.47 kb BamH1-Mlul fragment which, when introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH22 on a yeast-Escherichia coli shuttle vector, allows the transformants to utilize maltose as sole carbon source. Thus, the cloned gene confers a dominant selectable phenotype on transformed strains of S. cerevisiae which are otherwise unable to grow in nutrient media containing maltose, dextrin or other alpha-1.4-linked alpha-D-glucopyranosides, specifically hydrolysed by the alpha-glucosidase. The cloned enzyme expressed in yeast is secreted into the extracellular medium in a glycosylated form which accounts for up to 60% of the secreted protein and has a molecular size of 70-80 kilodalton (kDa). Deglycosylation of the alpha-glucosidase showed that the enzyme is composed of two distinct polypeptides with subunit molecular weights of 63-65 kDa (peptide 1) and 50-52 kDa (peptide 2). An increase in the level of expression of the alpha-glucosidase by yeast transformants in selective minimal medium was obtained by using a vector with increased copy number containing the leu2-d gene as selectable marker. The alpha-glucosidase gene promoter functions more effectively than the Gall-10 promoter in directing alpha-glucosidase expression in S. cerevisiae. It also directs the expression of high levels of beta-galactosidase activity in yeast when fused to a promoterless E. coli lacZ gene. Expression of the alpha-glucosidase gene under the control of its own promoter is constitutive, orientation dependent and not subject to catabolite repression. 
22112514	20111125	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Definition and characterization of enzymes for maximal biocatalytic solubilization of prebiotic polysaccharides from potato pulp.	Potato pulp is a high-volume co-processing product resulting from industrial potato starch manufacturing. Potato pulp is particularly rich in pectin, notably galactan branched rhamnogalacturonan I polysaccharides, which are highly bifidogenic when solubilized. The objective of the present study was to characterize and compare four homogalacturonan degrading enzymes capable of catalyzing the required solubilization of these pectinaceous polysaccharides from potato pulp in a 1 min reaction. An additional purpose was to assess the influence of the pH and the potential buffer chelating effects on the release of these polysaccharides from the potato pulp. The pH and temperature optima of two selected pectin lyases from Emericella nidulans (formerly known as Aspergillus nidulans) and Aspergillus niger were determined to 8.6 and 4.0, respectively, at ≥100 °C within 1 min of reaction. The optima for the two selected polygalacturonases from E. nidulans and Aspergillus aculeatus were determined to pH 4.4 and 46 °C, and pH 3.7 and ≥80 °C, respectively. The polygalacturonase from A. aculeatus was 4-42 times more heat-resistant at 50 °C than the other enzymes. The difference in pH optima of the pectin lyases and the exceptional thermal stabilities of some of the enzymes are proposed to be related to specific amino acid substitutions, stabilizing hydrogen bonding and structural traits of the enzymes. The K(M) and V(max) values ranged from 0.3-0.6g/L and 0.5-250.5 U/mg protein, respectively. Phosphate buffer induced release of a higher amount of dry matter than Tris-acetate buffer at pH 6, indicating a chelating effect of the phosphate. Moreover, the phosphate had a higher chelating effect at pH 6 than at pH 4. The optimal conditions for a high yield of polysaccharides from potato pulp were therefore: 1% (w/w) potato pulp treated with 1% (w/w) enzyme/substrate (E/S) pectin lyase from E. nidulans and 1% (w/w) E/S polygalacturonase from A. aculeatus at pH 6.0 and 60 °C for 1 min. 
21510637	20110423	J._Nat._Prod.	D016428 D013485 	Azaphilones and p-terphenyls from the mangrove endophytic fungus Penicillium chermesinum (ZH4-E2) isolated from the South China Sea.	Eight secondary metabolites, including three new azaphilones (chermesinones A-C, 1-3), three new p-terphenyls (6'-O-desmethylterphenyllin, 4; 3-hydroxy-6'-O-desmethylterphenyllin, 5; 3''-deoxy-6'-O-desmethylcandidusin B, 7), and two known p-terphenyls (6, 8), were isolated from the culture of the mangrove endophytic fungus Penicillium chermesinum (ZH4-E2). Their structures were established by spectroscopic analysis. The absolute configuration of 1 was determined by X-ray crystallography. Terphenyls 4, 5, and 6 exhibited strong inhibitory effects against α-glucosidase with IC50 values of 0.9, 4.9, and 2.5 μM, respectively. Terphenyls 7 and 8 showed inhibitory activity toward acetylcholinesterase with IC50 values of 7.8 and 5.2 μM. 
6767680	19800201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Expression of glycosidase activities during germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores.	Several lysosomal glycosidase activities were examined in vitro during heat-induced germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores and were found not to be coordinately controlled. The level of beta-glucosidase activity increased significantly during the emergence stage of germination. Both alpha-glucosidase and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activities remained relatively constant until postemergence, when they increased slightly; alpha-mannosidase activity decreased during all stages of germination. The activity of beta-galactosidase increased slightly during spore swelling, fell below the level initially found in spores at zero time, and increased slightly during postemergence. The expression of all of these enzyme activities, except the increase in beta-galactosidase, appeared to require protein synthesis. Spores in the lag phase of germination which were exposed to severe environmental stress were deactivated and exhibited reduced levels of alpha-glucosidase, beta-glucosidase, and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activities. Prolonged heat activation treatment reduced the levels of lysosomal glycosidase activities in postactivated spores but did not change the subsequent enzyme patterns during the spore-swelling and emergence stages of germination. 
23647603	20130508	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Partial purification and characterization of chiIO8, a novel antifungal chitinase produced by Bacillus cereus IO8.	To investigate the distribution of chitinase IO8 in Bacillus cereus strains, the enhancing effects of the chitinase-producing B. cereus strains on biocontrol potential by dual culture assay and in vivo assay against Botrytis cinerea and also the enhancing effects of the chiIO8 on disinfectant properties against seed-borne diseases. Moreover, the application of chiIO8 treatment was also observed to improve the germinative energy. The purification steps included ammonium sulfate precipitation, with columns of DEAE-Sepharose anion-exchange chromatography and Sephacryl S-400 high-resolution gel chromatography. The method gave a 5.8-fold increase in the specific activity and had a yield of 17%. The molecular weight of the partially purified chitinase chiIO8 was found to be around 30 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). The optimal pH and optimal temperature of the partially purified chitinase were pH 6.5 and 65°C, respectively. The thermostable chitinase still retained the activity after incubation for 100 min at 65°C, and it was increased about 1.25 times than that of the control (before heating) when the enzyme solution heated at 65°C for 60 min. The partially purified chitinase chiIO8 displays a wide inhibitory spectrum towards all phytopathogenic fungi tested. chiIO8 also exhibited effective disinfectant properties against seed-borne diseases. The present investigation emphasizes the potential of chitinase-producing micro-organism as promising biocontrol agents of fungal plant pathogens with chitinous cell wall. The novel chitinase chiIO8 proved an efficient, environmentally safe and user-friendly solution. This is the first investigation devoted exclusively to analyse the distribution of chitinase in B. cereus. It infers that the chitinase produced by B. cereus might play a role in the activity of the biopesticide. 
22902536	20120821	Biosens_Bioelectron	D023362 D016428 D013485 	TiO2 nanocrystals electrochemiluminescence quenching by biological enlarged nanogold particles and its application for biosensing.	Electrochemiluminescence (ECL) of TiO(2) nanocrystals with different crystal styles modified fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO) electrode was investigated in H(2)O(2) solution. The amorphous TiO(2) nanospheres were facilely synthesized by the hydrothermal and condensation method. Crystal TiO(2), namely anatase and rutile, were prepared by calcination of the amorphous TiO(2) nanospheres at 450 and 800°C, respectively. The transmission electron microscope (TEM) and electron diffraction pattern were used to characterize the obtained TiO(2) nanoparticles morphology and the corresponding crystal styles. The electrochemical and ECL behaviors were investigated by cyclic voltammetry. The ECL quenching was observed by introduction of gold nanoparticles. Based on the quenching effect, a sensitive glucose ECL biosensor as a model was fabricated by in-situ growing-up gold seeds in AuCl(4)(-) solution induced by biologically generated H(2)O(2). The linear range to detect glucose is from 5.0×10(-7)M to 4.0×10(-3)M with the limit of detection of 2.5×10(-7)M. 
4335690	19711101	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Characterization of two cell-wall polysaccharides from Fusicoccum amygdali.	1. The nature of two polysaccharides (s(0) (20) values 6S and 2S respectively in 1m-sodium hydroxide), comprising a fragment (fraction BB, [alpha](D) +236 degrees in 1m-sodium hydroxide), previously isolated from cell walls of Fusicoccum amygdali, has been investigated. 2. Both the major (2S) and minor (6S) components were affected by incubation with alpha-amylase. The 6S polysaccharide was also attacked by exo-beta-(1-->3)-glucanase, which is evidence that it contained both alpha-(1-->4)- and beta-(1-->3)-glucopyranose linkages. By fractionation of the products of alpha-amylase-treated fraction BB it was possible to obtain a water-insoluble polysaccharide, fraction P ([alpha](D) +290 degrees in 1m-sodium hydroxide, 67% of fraction BB) and a water-soluble polysaccharide, fraction Q ([alpha](D) +16 degrees in 1m-sodium hydroxide, 11% of fraction BB), both of which sedimented as single boundaries with s(0) (20) values (in 1m-sodium hydroxide) of 1.7S and 4.6S respectively. 3. Evidence from periodate oxidation, methylation analysis, i.r. spectroscopy and partial acid hydrolysis showed that fraction P consisted of linear chains of alpha-(1-->3)-glucopyranose units with blocks of one or two alpha-(1-->4)-glucopyranose units interspersed at intervals along the main chain. The 2S polysaccharide, from which fraction P is derived, evidently also contains longer blocks of alpha-(1-->4)-glucopyranose units, that are susceptible to alpha-amylase action. 4. Fraction Q consisted of glucose (88%) with small amounts of galactose, mannose and rhamnose. Evidence from digestion with exo- and endo-beta-(1-->3)-glucanases, periodate oxidation and methylation analysis suggests that fraction Q consists of a branched galactomannorhamnan core, to which is attached a beta-(1-->3)-, beta-(1-->6)-glucan. In the cell wall, chains of alpha-(1-->4)-linked glucopyranose units are linked to fraction Q to form the 6S component of fraction BB. 
23900618	20130801	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Dynamic changes in xylanases and β-1,4-endoglucanases secreted by Aspergillus niger An-76 in response to hydrolysates of lignocellulose polysaccharide.	Aspergillus niger is an effective secretor of glycoside hydrolases that facilitate the saprophytic lifestyle of the fungus by degrading plant cell wall polysaccharides. In the present study, a series of dynamic zymography assays were applied to quantify the secreted glycoside hydrolases of A. niger cultured in media containing different carbon sources. Differences in the diversity and concentrations of polysaccharide hydrolysates dynamically regulated the secretion of glycoside hydrolases. The secretion of β-1,4-endoglucanase isozymes was observed to lag at least 24 h behind, rather than coincide with, the secretion of xylanase isozymes. Low concentrations of xylose could induce many endoxylanases (such as Xyn1/XynA, Xyn2, and Xyn3/XynB). High concentrations of xylose could sustain the induction of Xyn2 and Xyn3/XynB but repress Xyn1/XynA (GH10 endoxylanase), which has a broad substrate specificity, and also triggers the low-level secretion of Egl3/EglA, which also has a broad substrate specificity. Mixed polysaccharide hydrolysates sustained the induction of Egl1, whereas the other β-1,4-endoglucanases were sustainably induced by the specific polysaccharide hydrolysates released during the hydrolysis process (such as Egl2 and Egl4). These results indicate that the secretion of glycoside hydrolases may be specifically regulated by the production of polysaccharide hydrolysates released during the process of biomass degradation. 
19093150	20081219	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 	Overexpression of the chitosanase gene in Fusarium solani via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation.	To overexpress the chitosanase gene (csn) in F. solani, a vector based on pCAMBIA 1300 was constructed. The csn gene, which is under control of the Aspergillus nidulans gpdA promoter and A. nidulans trpC terminator, was introduced back into the F. solani genome by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation, and the herbicide-resistance gene bar from Streptomyces hygroscopicus was used as the selection marker. Transformants which showed a significant increase in chitosanase production (approximately 2.1-fold than control) were obtained. Southern blot analysis indicated that most transformants had a single-copy T-DNA integration. 
8920970	19961101	Biochem._J.	D003160 D016428 	Pectin methyl esterase from Aspergillus aculeatus: expression cloning in yeast and characterization of the recombinant enzyme.	Seventeen full-length cDNAs encoding pectin methyl esterase I (PME I) have been isolated from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus aculeatus by expression cloning in yeast. Yeast colonies expressing functional PME I were identified on agar plates containing highly esterified pectin, and a cDNA encoding PME I was isolated. The deduced amino acid sequence of PME I is highly similar (74% identity) to the PME from Aspergillus niger. A full-length cDNA encoding PME I was cloned into an Aspergillus expression vector and transformed into Aspergillus oryzae for heterologous expression, purification and characterization of the recombinant enzyme. The recombinant PME I had a molecular mass of 36.2 kDa, an isoelectric point of pH 3.8, a pH optimum of 4.6 and a temperature optimum of 45 degrees C. The authentic PME I was purified from A. aculeatus culture supernatant and subjected to amino acid sequencing. The peptide sequences covered 138 amino acid residues and were in complete agreement with the deduced PME I sequence. Both recombinant and authentic PME I were glycosylated, but the composition of the glycan moieties was different. PME I was able to remove 75-85% of the methyl groups in highly methylated pectin, and it did not remove acetyl groups from acetylated polysaccharides. When the enzyme was added together with polygalacturonases to pectin, a rapid depolymerization was observed. By comparison, polygalacturonases alone showed a very limited degradation of the methylated substrate. This demonstrates that PME I acts in synergy with polygalacturonases in the degradation of plant cell wall pectin. 
16139382	20050906	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Increased alkali stability in Trichoderma reesei endo-1, 4-beta-xylanase II by site directed mutagenesis.	A number of engineered Trichoderma reesei endo-beta-1,4-xylanase (Xyn II) mutants were created and activity tests were performed for increased stability. The stability of the earlier characterized mutant Y5 (T2C, T28C, K58R, +191D) was further increased by the mutations creating the constructs P9 (N97R+F93W+H144K), P12 (H144C+N92C), P15 (F180Q+H144C+N92C) and P21 (H22K+F180Q+H144C+N92C). The resistance towards thermal inactivation at alkaline pH was increased in all of the mutants. Residual activity T(50%) was increased 4-5 degrees C for P9 at pH 9. The performance of the P9 mutant in sulphate pulp bleaching was also tested and was shown to increase brightness markedly compared to the reference. The bleaching results showed the industrial potential of the obtained mutant. 
12776916	20030605	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Chromosomal polymorphism in the yeast species Debaryomyces hansenii.	Pulse field gel electrophoresis karyotypes of 41 strains of the genus Debaryomyces, including 35 strains confirmed as D. hansenii species by D1/D2 ribosomal DNA sequence analysis, were performed. Electrophoretic karyotypes of the 41 strains exhibited 4 to 10 chromosomal bands ranging between 0.7 Mb and 4.2 Mb. Among D. hansenii species, the patterns of strains obtained from the CBS collection and cheese isolates differed strongly from D. hansenii var. hansenii CBS767T. Both D. hansenii var. hansenii and D. hansenii var. fabryii showed chromosome length polymorphism. Electrophoretic karyotypes of the D. hansenii strains were analyzed by Southern hybridization with various species-specific probes isolated from D. hansenii var. hansenii CBS767T. Repeated sequences including the F01pro, M18pro, the Ty1-copia retrotransposon Tdh5 and hypothetical telomeric sequence hybridized to several chromosomal bands, while a D1/D2 probe derived from the large ribosomal sub-unit hybridized only to the largest chromosome. Unique probes such as those hybridizing to actin ACT1, glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase GPD1 and beta-glucosidase LAC4 encoding genes were assigned to specific chromosomal bands of D. hansenii var. hansenii CBS767T. These probes failed to hybridize to D. hansenii var. fabryii strongly suggesting that strains of this variety actually represent a different taxon. 
22860913	20120807	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 	Role of prodigiosin and chitinases in antagonistic activity of the bacterium Serratia marcescens against the fungus Didymella applanata.	The molecular features of antagonism of the bacterium Serratia marcescens against the plant pathogenic fungus Didymella applanata have been studied. The chitinases and the red pigment prodigiosin (PG) of S. marcescens were isolated and characterized. Specific antifungal activity of the purified PG and chitinases against D. applanata was tested in vitro. The antagonistic properties of several S. marcescens strains exhibiting different levels of PG and chitinase production were analyzed in vitro with regard to D. applanata. It was found that the ability of S. marcescens to suppress the vital functions of D. applanata depends mainly on the level of PG production, whereas chitinase production does not provide the bacterium with any competitive advantage over the fungus. 
16084620	20050809	J._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Construction of cellobiose-growing and fermenting Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains.	Beta-glucosidase genes of fungal origins were isolated and heterologously expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to enable growth on the disaccharide, cellobiose. To promote secretion of the beta-glucosidases, the genes were fused to the secretion signal of the Trichoderma reesei xyn2 gene and constitutively expressed from a multi-copy yeast expression vector under transcriptional control of the S. cerevisiae PGK1 promoter and terminator. The resulting recombinant enzymes were characterized with respect to pH and temperature optimum, as well as kinetic properties. The two most promising enzymes, BGL1 from Saccharomycopsis fibuligera and BglA from Aspergillus kawachii, were anchored to the yeast cell surface by fusing the mature proteins to the alpha-agglutinin (AGalpha1) or cell wall protein 2 (Cwp2) peptides. The maximum specific growth rates (mu(max)) of the recombinant S. cerevisiae strains were determined in batch cultivation. S. cerevisiae secreting the recombinant S. fibuligera BGL1 enzyme sustained growth aerobically and anaerobically, in minimal medium containing 5g L(-1) cellobiose at 0.23 h(-1) (compared to 0.29 h(-1) on glucose) and 0.18 h(-1) (compared to 0.25 h(-1) on glucose), respectively. Substrate consumption and product formation were determined to evaluate product yields in glucose and cellobiose. 
15502369	20041027	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Purification and antifungal activity of recombinant chitinase from Escherichia coli carrying the family 19 chitinase gene of Streptomyces sp. J-13-3.	A recombinant chitinase was purified from the cell extract of Escherichia coli JM109 transformed by plasmid pUC19 carrying the gene encoding family 19 chitinase of Streptomyces sp. J-13-3 by column chromatography on DEAE-Sepharose, CM-Sepharose, and Bio-Gel P-100. The final preparation was homogenous in polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The molecular weight of the purified enzyme was estimated to be 32,000. The recombinant chitinase hydrolyzed the trimer to hexamer of N-acetylglucosamine and had the identical N-terminal amino acid sequence of the mature protein, indicating removal of the signal sequence by E. coli signal peptidase. The fungal growth in well (200 microl of medium) of microplate by measurement of absorbance at 595 nm indicated that the chitinase (10 microg) completely and half inhibited growth of Trichoderma reesei and Aspergillus niger respectively. 
10653750	20000202	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a foldase, protein disulfide isomerase A, in the protein secretory pathway of Aspergillus niger.	Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) is important in assisting the folding and maturation of secretory proteins in eukaryotes. A gene, pdiA, encoding PDIA was previously isolated from Aspergillus niger, and we report its functional characterization here. Functional analysis of PDIA showed that it catalyzes the refolding of denatured and reduced RNase A. pdiA also complemented PDI function in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae Deltapdi1 mutant in a yeast-based killer toxin assay. Levels of pdiA mRNA and PDIA protein were raised by the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. This response of pdiA mRNA levels was slower and lower in magnitude than that of A. niger bipA, suggesting that the induction of pdiA is not part of the primary stress response. An increased level of pdiA transcripts was also observed in two A. niger strains overproducing a heterologous protein, hen egg white lysozyme (HEWL). Although overexpression of PDI has been successful in increasing yields of some heterologous proteins in S. cerevisiae, overexpression of PDIA did not increase secreted yields of HEWL in A. niger, suggesting that PDIA itself is not limiting for secretion of this protein. Downregulation of pdiA by antisense mRNA reduced the levels of microsomal PDIA activity by up to 50%, lowered the level of PDIA as judged by Western blots, and lowered the secreted levels of glucoamylase by 60 to 70%. 
6641730	19831115	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Reversibility characteristics of glucose-induced trehalase activation associated with the breaking of dormancy in yeast ascospores.	The breaking of dormancy in yeast ascospores by addition of glucose is associated with a sudden tenfold increase in the activity of trehalase. The rapid activation of trehalase is followed by a slower inactivation process which is greatly retarded in the presence of nitrogen sources and cycloheximide. When glucose is washed away from the spores after some time and the spores resuspended in glucose-free medium, the trehalase activity decreases sharply. Subsequent addition of new glucose partially reactivates the enzyme. The extent of reactivation decreases further with each subsequent activation/inactivation step. Changing the duration of the inactivation periods has no effect on this diminution of the reversibility. However, prolonging the duration of the activation step speeds up the loss of reversibility. On the other hand, addition of a nitrogen source or cycloheximide completely prevents the loss of reversibility. The results of the reversibility studies are in agreement with the phosphorylation mechanism which has been proposed for the underlying molecular process of trehalase activation. Apparently, they are also in agreement with proteolytic breakdown being responsible for the inactivation of trehalase after its initial activation. However, the effect of cycloheximide and nitrogen sources, at least in ascospores, does not appear to be due to inhibition or repression of protease synthesis, respectively, since the addition in the presence of glucose of a nitrogen source after trehalase inactivation immediately reactivates the enzyme completely. 
7364713	19800201	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013487 	High-frequency heterokaryon formation by Mucor racemosus.	Heterokaryons from Mucor racemosus were produced from two auxotrophic strains of the fungus. Germlings were converted to spheroplasts by using commercial chitinase and purified Myxobacter AL-1 chitosanase. Spheroplasts from the auxotrophic strains were mixed and fused in solutions of polyethylene glycol and CaCl2. Under optimal conditions, prototrophic heterokaryons were formed at a frequency of about 5%. 
18053205	20071207	BMC_Genomics	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Impact of light on Hypocrea jecorina and the multiple cellular roles of ENVOY in this process.	In fungi, light is primarily known to influence general morphogenesis and both sexual and asexual sporulation. In order to expand the knowledge on the effect of light in fungi and to determine the role of the light regulatory protein ENVOY in the implementation of this effect, we performed a global screen for genes, which are specifically effected by light in the fungus Hypocrea jecorina (anamorph Trichoderma reesei) using Rapid Subtraction Hybridization (RaSH). Based on these data, we analyzed whether these genes are influenced by ENVOY and if overexpression of ENVOY in darkness would be sufficient to execute its function. The cellular functions of the detected light responsive genes comprised a variety of roles in transcription, translation, signal transduction, metabolism, and transport. Their response to light with respect to the involvement of ENVOY could be classified as follows: (i) ENVOY-mediated upregulation by light; (ii) ENVOY-independent upregulation by light; (iii) ENVOY-antagonized upregulation by light; ENVOY-dependent repression by light; (iv) ENVOY-independent repression by light; and (v) both positive and negative regulation by ENVOY of genes not responsive to light in the wild-type. ENVOY was found to be crucial for normal growth in light on various carbon sources and is not able to execute its regulatory function if overexpressed in the darkness. The different responses indicate that light impacts fungi like H. jecorina at several cellular processes, and that it has both positive and negative effects. The data also emphasize that ENVOY has an apparently more widespread cellular role in this process than only in modulating the response to light. 
16348963	19930601	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Effects of Kraft Pulp and Lignin on Trametes versicolor Carbon Metabolism.	The white rot basidiomycete Trametes (Coriolus) versicolor can substantially increase the brightness and decrease the lignin content of washed, unbleached hardwood kraft pulp (HWKP). Monokaryotic strain 52J was used to study how HWKP and the lignin in HWKP affect the carbon metabolism and secretions of T. versicolor. Earlier work indicated that a biobleaching culture supernatant contained all components necessary for HWKP biobleaching and delignification, but the supernatant needed frequent contact with the fungus to maintain these activities. Thus, labile small fungal metabolites may be the vital biobleaching system components renewed or replaced by the fungus. Nearly all of the CO(2) evolved by HWKP-containing cultures came from the added glucose, indicating that HWKP is not an important source of carbon or energy during biobleaching. Carbon dioxide appeared somewhat earlier in the absence of HWKP, but the culture partial O(2) pressure was little affected by the presence of pulp. The presence of HWKP in a culture markedly increased the culture's production of a number of acidic metabolites, including 2-phenyllactate, oxalate, adipate, glyoxylate, fumarate, mandelate, and glycolate. Although the total concentration of these pulp-induced metabolites was only 4.3 mM, these compounds functioned as effective manganese-complexing agents for the manganese peroxidase-mediated oxidation of phenol red, propelling the reaction at 2.4 times the rate of 50 mM sodium malonate, the standard chelator-buffer. The presence of HWKP in a culture also markedly stimulated fungal secretion of the enzymes manganese peroxidase, cellulase, and cellobiose-quinone oxidoreductase, but not laccase (phenol oxidase) or lignin peroxidase. 
18031332	20071123	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016422 	Identification and expression of GH-8 family chitosanases from several Bacillus thuringiensis subspecies.	The Gram-positive spore-forming bacterium, Bacillus thuringiensis, a member of the Bacillus cereus group, produces chitosanases that catalyze the hydrolysis of chitosan to chitosan-oligosaccharides (COS). Although fungal and bacterial chitosanases belonging to other glycoside hydrolase (GH) families have been characterized in a variety of microorganisms, knowledge on the genetics and phylogeny of the GH-8 chitosanases remains limited. Nine genes encoding chitosanases were cloned from 29 different serovar strains of B. thuringiensis and they were expressed in Escherichia coli. The ORFs of the chitosanases contained 1,359 nucleotides and the protein products had high levels of sequence identity (>96%) to other Bacillus species GH-8 chitosanases. Thin-layer chromatography and HPLC analyses demonstrated that these enzymes hydrolyzed chitosan to a chitosan-trimer and a chitosan-tetramer as major products, and this could be useful in the production of COS. In addition, a simple plate assay was developed, involving a soluble chitosan, for high-throughput screening of chitosanases. This system allowed screening for mutant enzymes with higher enzyme activity generated by error-prone PCR, indicating that it can be used for directed chitosanase evolution. 
10590467	19991211	Yeast	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of MELt gene from Torulaspora delbrueckii IFO 1255.	Torulaspora delbrueckii IFO 1255 is a melibiose-fermenting strain in Torulaspora species. From the genome of strain IFO 1255, we obtained a 770 bp fragment by PCR with oligonucleotides synthesized based on the MEL genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its related species. The region encompassing the 770 bp fragment was cloned by inverse PCR and sequenced. The nucleotide sequence revealed an open reading frame of 1422 bp encoding a 474 amino acid protein with a molecular weight of 52 360. The similarity of the presumed mature protein to Saccharomyces species and Zygosaccharomyces cidri alpha-galactosidases was 69.7-73.2% and 58.4%, respectively. The phylogenetic relationship between these species is discussed. The sequence is deposited in the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank database under Accession No. AB027130. 
7642129	19950808	Gene	D016428 	The cellulase complex of Neurospora crassa: cbh-1 cloning, sequencing and homologies.	We describe the isolation, cloning and sequencing of the cellobiohydrolase 1 (EC 3.2.1.91)-encoding gene (cbh-1) of Neurospora crassa. The nucleotide and amino-acid sequences have high homology with the cbh-1 of Trichoderma reesei, Humicola grisea and Phanerochaete chrysosporium, with clear signal, catalytic, hinge and substrate-binding domains in that order. 
1453960	19921111	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 	The bgl1 gene encoding extracellular beta-glucosidase from Trichoderma reesei is required for rapid induction of the cellulase complex.	We have used a targeted gene deletion event to remove the coding region for the bgl1 gene encoding an extracellular beta-glucosidase from the genome of the cellulolytic fungus Trichoderma reesei. The bgl1 null mutants were used to investigate the role of beta-glucosidase in the hydrolysis of cellulose and induction of the other cellulolytic enzyme components. In the absence of extracellular beta-glucosidase, growth of bgl1 null strains on several carbon sources was the same as that of the parent (as measured by mycelial dry weight). However, levels of extracellular protein and total endoglucanase production were seen to lag relative to those levels observed in the control strain. The mRNA levels of the CBHI, CBHII, EGI, and EGII cellulase genes (cbh1, cbh2, egl1 and egl3) showed a corresponding lag in induction, suggesting that the absence of extracellular beta-glucosidase has an effect on the co-ordinate regulation of the other cellulase genes at the level of transcription. The addition of a potent inducer of the cellulase complex (sophorose) resulted in normal rates of cellulase gene mRNA production and extracellular protein release. This indicates that the absence of beta-glucosidase is not affecting some intrinsic cellular ability to produce mRNA or secrete protein. These data suggest that a functional beta-glucosidase is at least partially responsible for the efficient induction of the depolymerase enzymes of the cellulase complex. The observation that the cellulase complex is induced, albeit after a lag, suggests that other enzymes are present that can substitute for the function of beta-glucosidase during induction. 
19769368	20090923	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of an antifungal and cryoprotective class I chitinase from table grape berries (Vitis vinifera cv. Cardinal).	Gene expression of a class I chitinase (Vcchit1b) in the skin of table grapes was analyzed as a molecular marker for changes induced at low temperature and also to study the effect of high CO(2) levels modulating transcript levels at 0 degrees C. An active recombinant VcCHIT1b was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and as the protein was produced as insoluble inclusion bodies, it was solubilized and refolded. The purified recombinant chitinase showed an optimum pH of 6.0 and a temperature of 50 degrees C, retaining activity at 0 and -10 degrees C. Purified chitinase exerted in vitro antifungal activity against Botrytis cinerea. Furthermore, recombinant chitinase was able to cryoprotect lactate dehydrogenase against freeze/thaw inactivation. However, the recombinant VcCHIT1b did not show any antifreeze activity when the thermal hysteresis activity was measured using differential scanning calorimetry. 
356886	19780707	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Purification and properties of trehalase from the thermophilic fungus Humicola lanuginosa.	Trehalase (alpha,alpha-Trehalose glucohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.28) was partially solubilized from the thermophilic fungus Humicola lanuginosa RM-B, and purified 184-fold. The purified enzyme was optimally active at 50 degrees C in acetate buffer at pH 5.5. It was highly specific for alpha,alpha-trehalose and had an apparent Km = 0.4 mM at 50 degrees C. None of the other disaccharides tested either inhibited or activated the enzyme. The molecular weight of the enzyme was around 170 000. Trehalase from mycelium grown at 40 and 50 degrees C had similar properties. The purified enzyme, in contrast to that in the crude-cell free extract, was less stable. At low concentration, purified trehalase was afforded protection against heat-inactivation by "protection against heat-inactivation by "protective factor(s)" present in mycelial extracts. The "protective factor(s)" was sensitive to proteolytic digestion. It was not diffusible and was stable to boiling for at least 30 min. Bovine serum albumin and casein also protected the enzyme from heat-inactivation. 
28763	19780707	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Purification and properties of an induced beta-D-glucosidase from stachybotrys atra.	We have purified an induced beta-D-glucosidase (beta-D-glucoside glucohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.21) from Stachybotrys atra to apparent homogeneity. The induced enzyme was clearly different from the constitutive beta-D-glucosidase. The molecular weight was 65 500-69 000, the pH optimum was at 6.7 and the isoelectric point at 4.8. Carbohydrate content (related to glucose) was 14.4%. The enzyme showed beta-D-glucosidase, beta-D-xylosidase and beta-D-thioglucosidase activity. These three activities sppear to be due to the same enzyme. The enzyme was strongly inhibited by D-glucono-(1 leads to 5)-lactone and nojirimycin and was very sensitive to sulfhydryl reagents. 
23166747	20121121	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Phylogenomic relationships between amylolytic enzymes from 85 strains of fungi.	Fungal amylolytic enzymes, including α-amylase, gluocoamylase and α-glucosidase, have been extensively exploited in diverse industrial applications such as high fructose syrup production, paper making, food processing and ethanol production. In this paper, amylolytic genes of 85 strains of fungi from the phyla Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, Chytridiomycota and Zygomycota were annotated on the genomic scale according to the classification of glycoside hydrolase (GH) from the Carbohydrate-Active enZymes (CAZy) Database. Comparisons of gene abundance in the fungi suggested that the repertoire of amylolytic genes adapted to their respective lifestyles. Amylolytic enzymes in family GH13 were divided into four distinct clades identified as heterologous α-amylases, eukaryotic α-amylases, bacterial and fungal α-amylases and GH13 α-glucosidases. Family GH15 had two branches, one for gluocoamylases, and the other with currently unknown function. GH31 α-glucosidases showed diverse branches consisting of neutral α-glucosidases, lysosomal acid α-glucosidases and a new clade phylogenetically related to the bacterial counterparts. Distribution of starch-binding domains in above fungal amylolytic enzymes was related to the enzyme source and phylogeny. Finally, likely scenarios for the evolution of amylolytic enzymes in fungi based on phylogenetic analyses were proposed. Our results provide new insights into evolutionary relationships among subgroups of fungal amylolytic enzymes and fungal evolutionary adaptation to ecological conditions. 
21116681	20101201	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Homologue expression of a β-xylosidase from native Aspergillus niger.	Xylan constitutes the second most abundant source of renewable organic carbon on earth and is located in the cell walls of hardwood and softwood plants in the form of hemicellulose. Based on its availability, there is a growing interest in production of xylanolytic enzymes for industrial applications. β-1,4-xylan xylosidase (EC 3.2.1.37) hydrolyses from the nonreducing end of xylooligosaccharides arising from endo-1,4-β-xylanase activity. This work reports the partial characterization of a purified β-xylosidase from the native strain Aspergillus niger GS1 expressed by means of a fungal system. A gene encoding β-xylosidase, xlnD, was successfully cloned from a native A. niger GS1 strain. The recombinant enzyme was expressed in A. niger AB4.1 under control of A. nidulans gpdA promoter and trpC terminator. β-xylosidase was purified by affinity chromatography, with an apparent molecular weight of 90 kDa, and showed a maximum activity of 4,280 U mg protein(-1) at 70°C, pH 3.6. Half-life was 74 min at 70°C, activation energy was 58.9 kJ mol(-1), and at 50°C optimum stability was shown at pH 4.0-5.0. β-xylosidase kept residual activity >83% in the presence of dithiothreitol (DTT), β-mercaptoethanol, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), ethylenediaminetetraacetate (EDTA), and Zn(2+). Production of a hemicellulolytic free xylosidase showed some advantages in applications, such as animal feed, enzymatic synthesis, and the fruit-juice industry where the presence of certain compounds, high temperatures, and acid media is unavoidable in the juice-making process. 
9153432	19970513	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Structure of the endoglucanase I from Fusarium oxysporum: native, cellobiose, and 3,4-epoxybutyl beta-D-cellobioside-inhibited forms, at 2.3 A resolution.	The mechanisms involved in the enzymatic degradation of cellulose are of great ecological and commercial importance. The breakdown of cellulose by fungal species is performed by a consortium of free enzymes, known as cellobiohydrolases and endoglucanases, which are found in many of the 57 glycosyl hydrolase families. The structure of the endoglucanase I (EG I), found in glycosyl hydrolase family 7, from the thermophilic fungus Fusarium oxysporum has been solved at 2.3 A resolution. In addition to the native enzyme, structures have also been determined with both the affinity label, 3,4-epoxybutyl beta-D-cellobioside, and the reaction product cellobiose. The affinity label is covalently bound, as expected, to the catalytic nucleophile, Glu197, with clear evidence for binding of both the R and S stereoisomers. Cellobiose is found bound to the -2 and -1 subsites of the enzyme. In marked contrast to the structure of EG I with a nonhydrolyzable thiosaccharide analog, which spanned the -2, -1, and +1 subsites and which had a skew-boat conformation for the -1 subsite sugar [Sulzenbacher, G., et al. (1996) Biochemistry 35, 15280-15287], the cellobiose complex shows no pyranoside ring distortion in the -1 subsite, implying that strain is induced primarily by the additional +1 subsite interactions and that the product is found, as expected, in its unstrained conformation. 
9841776	19981205	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of a low-molecular-weight xylanase produced by acrophialophora nainiana 	A low-molecular-weight xylanase activity (XynI) was isolated from the fungus Acrophialophora nainiana after growth in a solid medium containing wheat bran. XynI was purified to apparent homogeneity by ultrafiltration and gel filtration chromatography. The purified enzyme had a molecular weight value of approx. 17 kDa, as determined by SDS-PAGE. This enzyme was most active at 50 degreesC and pH 6.0. At 50 degreesC the half-life was 150 min. The apparent Km value for birchwood xylan was much lower than the Km value for oat spelt xylan. XynI was activated by L-cysteine, DTE, beta-mercaptoethanol, and L-tryptophan. XynI did not show significant sequence homology with other xylanases. The analysis of hydrolysis products of xylans and wood pulps showed that XynI was able to release xylooligomers ranging from X2 to X3 and X2 to X6, respectively. The enzyme was not active against acetylated xylan. A small amount of xylose was released from deacetylated, birchwood, and oat spelt xylans. The results obtained with enzymatic treatment of Kraft pulp indicated a reduction in the amount of chlorine compounds required for the process and enhanced brightness gain. 
21532326	20110503	J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Evidence of an alternative route of cellobiase secretion in the presence of brefeldin A in the filamentous fungus Termitomyces clypeatus.	Secretion of cellobiase occurred in a brefeldin A (BFA) uninhibited manner in the filamentous fungus Termitomyces clypeatus. Fluorescence confocal microscopy revealed that application of the drug at a concentration of 50 microgram/ml caused arrest of Spitzenkorper assembly at the hyphal tip. This resulted in greater than 30% inhibition of total protein secretion in the culture medium. However, the cellobiase titer increased by 17%, and an additional 13% was localized in the vacuolar fraction en route secretion. The secretory vacuoles formed in the presence of the drug were also found to be bigger (68 nm) than those in the control cultures (40 nm). The enzyme secreted in the presence and absence of BFA revealed a single activity band in both cases in native PAGE and had similar molecular masses (approx. 120 kDa) in SDS-PAGE. The BFA enzyme retained 72% of native glycosylation. It also exhibited a higher stability and retained 98% activity at 50°C, 93.3% activity at pH 9, 63.64% activity in the presence of 1M guanidium hydrochloride, and 50% activity at a glucose concentration of 10 mg/ml in comparison to 68% activity, 75% activity, 36% activity, and 19% activity for the control enzyme, respectively. The observations collectively aimed at the operation of an alternative secretory pathway, distinct from the target of brefeldin A, which bypassed the Golgi apparatus, but still was able to deliver the cargo to the vacuoles for secretion. This can be utilized in selectively enhancing the yield and stability of glycosidases for a successful industrial recipe. 
15103145	20040423	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary crystallographic analysis of a native chitinase from the fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus YJ-407.	Chitinase hydrolyzes chitin, a linear polymer of beta-1,4-linked N-acetylglucosamine (NAG), and plays a variety of roles in the biological world. In addition to endo- and exo-hydrolytic activities, transglycosyl activity has also been observed in the extracellular chitinase (afCHI) from the airborne saprophytic fungi Aspergillus fumigatus YJ-407. Crystals of this native chitinase have been grown at 291 K using PEG 3350 as a precipitant. The diffraction data from the crystal extend to 1.7 A resolution at BSRF, China. The crystal belongs to space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 95.7, b = 100.5, c = 134.3 A. The presence of two molecules per asymmetric unit gives a crystal volume per protein mass (V(M)) of 3.6 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 65% by volume. A full set of X-ray diffraction data was collected to 2.1 A resolution. 
6891886	19821101	Ann._Microbiol._(Paris)	D004740 D016428 	[Hydrolysis of cellulose by fungi. 1. Screening of cellulolytic strains].	Trichoderma harzianum was selected from 30 strains of cellulolytic fungi with the aim of producing cellulases by solid state fermentation of lignocellulosic substrates. Special attention was paid to cellulase production (i.e. carboxymethylcellulase and filter paper activity), apical growth and conidia production. Under the conditions of our experiments, T. harzianum exhibited the highest cellulasic activities with 1,315 IU/l of carboxymethyl cellulose and 80 IU/l of filter paper activity. Apical growth (1 mm/h) and yield of conidial production (3.25 x 10(10) conidia/g of substrate dry weight) were also valuable characteristics of this strain in the use of solid state fermentation. 
8662210	19960601	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Correlation of exons with functional domains and folding regions in a cellulase from Agaricus bisporus.	The cellulase gene cel3 has been isolated from Agaricus bisporus and sequenced. The 5'-end of the cel3 transcript was determined by primer extension and S1 nuclease protection. Putative regulatory elements have been identified in the cel3 promoter and 3'-untranslated regions. The cel3 coding region is interrupted by six short introns, two of which separate the coding regions for the three modules in the CEL3 protein: cellulose-binding domain, linker region, and catalytic domain. Three of the remaining four introns are positioned in regions coding for loops between structural moieties. Intron positions are conserved between cel3 and other related cellulases. 
15706912	20050215	Zhongguo_Zhong_Yao_Za_Zhi	D016428 D013485 	[Effect of endophytic fungi on the culture and four enzyme activities of Anoectochillus formosanus].	To study the effect of endophytic fungi. A. formosanus, harvested after having been cultured for age, statistics were taken, fresh weight and dry weight were gained, and enzyme activities of chitinase, beta-1,3-glucase, phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and polyphenoloxidase were determined. The survial rates of A. formosanus inoculated with endophytic fungi was 100%. The effect of fungi on fresh weight was very significant (P < 0.01). The effect of fungi on dry weight was significant (P > 0.05). The four enzyme activities were enhanced by endophytic fungi, comparision with the controls. Survial rates of A. formosanus can be increased by using endophytic fungi in vitro culture. 
16214381	20051011	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Candida albicans CHT3 encodes the functional homolog of the Cts1 chitinase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Chitin synthesis and chitin degradation play an important role in cellular morphogenesis and influence the cell shape of fungal organisms. The Candida albicans genome contains four chitinase genes, CHT1, CHT2, and CHT3, which are homologous to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae CTS1 gene and C. albicans CHT4, which is homologous to S. cerevisiae CTS2. To determine which of the C. albicans CHT genes represents the functional homolog of the S. cerevisiae CTS1 gene we constructed mutants of these genes and characterized the resulting phenotypes using morphological assays such as in vivo time lapse microscopy and enzymatic assays to determine the chitinase activity. Deletion of CaCHT1 and CaCHT2 provided no phenotypic alterations in liquid culture but resulted in increased hyphal growth on solid media. Deletion of CaCHT3 generated chains of unseparated cells in the yeast growth phase strongly resembling the cts1 deletion phenotype of S. cerevisiae cells. Expression of CHT3 under control of the regulatable MAL2-promoter in C. albicans resulted in the reversion of the cell separation defect when cells were grown in maltose. Cht3, but not Cht2 when expressed in S. cerevisiae was also able to reverse the cell separation defect of the S. cerevisiae c ts1 deletion strain. Measurements of chitinase activity from yeast cells of C. albicans showed that Cht2 is bound to cells, consistent with it being GPI-anchored while Cht3 is secreted into growth medium; Cht3 is also the principal, observed activity. 
862201	19770415	Clin._Chim._Acta	D016428 D013487 	A new serum alpha-amylase assay of high sensitivity.	The use of chemically modified starch substrates for measurement of serum alpha-amylase activity is described. Action of alpha-amylase on such substrates, in the presence of excess fungal glucoamylase, results in the production of glucose in direct proportion to the amount of alpha-amylase present. The glucose produced is measured by a specific enzymic assay. Results obtained by using this new assay correlate well with activities determined by a conventional saccharogenic assay. The new method is of much higher sensitivity, and is less susceptible to interference, than are most other alpha-amylase assay methods. 
15255906	20040717	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	The Candida albicans CaACE2 gene affects morphogenesis, adherence and virulence.	Morphogenesis between yeast and hyphal growth is a characteristic associated with virulence in Candida albicans and involves changes in the cell wall. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the transcription factor pair Ace2p and Swi5p are key regulators of cell wall metabolism. Here, we have characterized the CaACE2 gene, which encodes the only C. albicans homologue of S. cerevisiae ACE2 and SWI5. Deleting CaACE2 results in a defect in cell separation, increased invasion of solid agar medium and inappropriate pseudohyphal growth, even in the absence of external inducers. The mutant cells have reduced adherence to plastic surfaces and generate biofilms with distinctly different morphology from wild-type cells. They are also avirulent in a mouse model. Deleting CaACE2 has no effect on expression of the chitinase gene CHT2, but expression of CHT3 and the putative cell wall genes CaDSE1 and CaSCW11 is reduced in both yeast and hyphal forms. The CaAce2 protein is localized to the daughter nucleus of large budded cells at the end of mitosis. C. albicans Ace2p therefore plays a major role in morphogenesis and adherence and resembles S. cerevisiae Ace2p in function. 
9435084	19980122	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Impaired secretion of a hydrophobic cutinase by Saccharomyces cerevisiae correlates with an increased association with immunoglobulin heavy-chain binding protein (BiP).	This study focuses on the different efficiencies of secretion of two fungal cutinases by Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a wild-type cutinase (CY000) and a hydrophobic mutant cutinase (CY028). Both cutinases are placed under control of the GAL7 promoter, by which the expression levels can be regulated. Wild-type cutinase was secreted at up to 25 mg per g (dry weight), while CY028 was secreted at a level of 2 mg per g (dry weight); this difference is nearly independent of the expression level. Pulse-chase experiments revealed that whereas CY000 cutinase is secreted, CY028 is irreversibly retained in the cell. Immunogold labelling followed by electron microscopy revealed colocalization of CY028 with immunoglobulin heavy-chain binding protein (BiP) in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The increase of wild-type cutinase expression did not result in higher levels of the molecular chaperone BiP, but BiP levels are raised by increased induction of the hydrophobic mutant cutinase. Immunoprecipitation studies showed that in contrast to the wild-type cutinase, the hydrophobic mutant cutinase interacts with BiP. These results indicate that the introduction of two exposed hydrophobic patches in cutinase results in a higher affinity for BiP which might cause the retention of this mutant cutinase in the ER. 
12530525	20030118	Cell._Mol._Life_Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Oligo-1,6-glucosidase and neopullulanase enzyme subfamilies from the alpha-amylase family defined by the fifth conserved sequence region.	The alpha-amylase enzyme family is the largest family of glycoside hydrolases. It contains almost 30 different enzyme specificities covering hydrolases, transferases and isomerases. Some of the enzyme specificities from the family are closely related, others less so. This study, based on the analysis of 79 amino acid sequences, postulates two subfamilies in the framework of the aamylase family: the oligo-1,6-glucosidase subfamily and the neopullulanase subfamily. The specific sequence in the fifth conserved sequence region of the family served as the basis for defining the subfamilies: QpDln for the oligo-1,6-glucosidase subfamily and MPKln for the neopullulanase subfamily. This conserved sequence region is proposed to be the selection marker that enables one to distinguish between the two subfamilies. The 'intermediary' sequence MPDLN can be characteristic of the so-called intermediary group with a mixed enzyme specificity of alpha-amylase, cyclomaltodextrinase and neopullulanase. The evolutionary trees clearly supported the proposed definition of the two subfamilies. 
12209794	20020905	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Overexpression of an archaeal protein in yeast: secretion bottleneck at the ER.	Archaeal enzymes have great potential for industrial use; however, expressing them in their natural hosts has proven challenging. Growth conditions for many archaea are beyond typical fermentation capabilities, and to compound the problem, archaea generally achieve much lower biomass yields than Escherichia coli or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To determine whether a eukaryotic host, S. cerevisiae, would be a suitable alternative for archaeal protein production, we examined the expression of the tetrameric beta-glucosidase from the hyperthermophilic archaeon Pyrococcus furiosus. We engineered the beta-glucosidase to facilitate secretion into the culture medium and have demonstrated the beta-glucosidase's secretion and activity. We determined the dependence of beta-glucosidase secretion on gene copy number and obtained a transformant capable of secreting approximately 10 mg/L in batch culture. All transformants retained large intracellular fractions of beta-glucosidase, indicative of an intracellular bottleneck. Cell fractionation by sucrose density centrifugation and immunofluorescence identified the endoplasmic reticulum as the secretion bottleneck. Preliminary evidence indicates that the cause of this bottleneck is misfolding of the monomeric beta-glucosidase, rather than tetrameric association. Expression at moderately elevated temperatures (between 30 and 40 degrees C) improved beta-glucosidase yields, suggesting that higher temperature expression may improve folding and secretion yields. 
23826286	20130705	PLoS_ONE	D003160 D016428 	Quantification of Chitinase mRNA Levels in Human and Mouse Tissues by Real-Time PCR: Species-Specific Expression of Acidic Mammalian Chitinase in Stomach Tissues.	Chitinase hydrolyzes chitin, which is an N-acetyl-D-glucosamine polymer that is present in a wide range of organisms, including insects, parasites and fungi. Although mammals do not contain any endogenous chitin, humans and mice express two active chitinases, chitotriosidase (Chit1) and acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase). Because the level of expression of these chitinases is increased in many inflammatory conditions, including Gaucher disease and mouse models of asthma, both chitinases may play important roles in the pathophysiologies of these and other diseases. We recently established a quantitative PCR system using a single standard DNA and showed that AMCase mRNA is synthesized at extraordinarily high levels in mouse stomach tissues. In this study, we applied this methodology to the quantification of chitinase mRNAs in human tissues and found that both chitinase mRNAs were widely expressed in normal human tissues. Chit1 mRNA was highly expressed in the human lung, whereas AMCase mRNA was not overexpressed in normal human stomach tissues. The levels of these mRNAs in human tissues were significantly lower than the levels of housekeeping genes. Because the AMCase expression levels were quite different between the human and mouse stomach tissues, we developed a quantitative PCR system to compare the mRNA levels between human and mouse tissues using a human-mouse hybrid standard DNA. Our analysis showed that Chit1 mRNA is expressed at similar levels in normal human and mouse lung. In contrast, the AMCase expression level in human stomach was significantly lower than that expression level observed in mouse stomach. These mRNA differences between human and mouse stomach tissues were reflecting differences in the chitinolytic activities and levels of protein expression. Thus, the expression level of the AMCase in the stomach is species-specific.  
21048867	20101105	Enzyme_Res	D016428 	Economic Analysis of the Production of Amylases and Other Hydrolases by Aspergillus awamori in Solid-State Fermentation of Babassu Cake.	Amylases are one of the most important industrial enzymes produced worldwide, with their major application being in ethanol manufacturing. This work investigated the production of amylases by solid-state fermentation of babassu cake, using the filamentous fungus Aspergillus awamori IOC-3914. Lab-scale experiments were carried out to generate input data for simulations of an industrial plant for amylase production. Additionally to the target enzymes, other hydrolases (cellulases, xylanases, and proteases) were also produced, enriching the final product. The most suitable fermentation time was 144 hours, when exoamylase and endoamylase activities of 40.5 and 42.7 U g(-1) were achieved, respectively. A first evaluation showed a large impact of the inoculum propagation medium on production costs. Therefore, five propagation media were compared, and PDA medium presented the best cost-benefit ratio. The credits obtained from sales of fermented cake as a coproduct enabled a significant decrease in the production cost of the enzyme product, down to 10.40 USD kg(-1). 
24212538	20131112	Microb._Ecol.	D016428 	Distribution of microorganisms, total biomass, and enzyme activities in different particles of brown soil.	A soil sample from the Ap horizon of an arable brown soil was fractionated by wet sieving, and seven size fractions of organic and mineral soil particles were separated. The organic fractions formed only 2.2% of the soil dry mass, but contained 41.5 and 29.12% of the total soil content of carbon and nitrogen, respectively, and thus represented an important reservoir of readily utilizable nutrients. Organic particles also accumulated most of the soil enzyme activities, determined asβ-glucosidase,β-acetylglucosaminidase, and proteinase activity. The highest counts of bacteria, actinomycetes, and fungi per gram of the soil fractions were obtained with the organic particles, but for the most part microorganisms accumulated in the silt-clay fraction. All soil fractions except the coarsest organic particles contained higher counts of oligotrophic bacteria than copiotrophic ones. Microbial counts, ATP contents, and enzyme activities decreased significantly with decrease in size of the organic soil particles, and increased with decrease in size of the mineral soil particles. Thus, the coarse organic particles >5 mm and the silt-clay fraction <0.05 mm represent the sites with the highest concentrations of microorganisms, ATP contents, and enzyme activities in the arable brown soil under test.  
22839502	20120731	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	PGASO: A synthetic biology tool for engineering a cellulolytic yeast.	To achieve an economical cellulosic ethanol production, a host that can do both cellulosic saccharification and ethanol fermentation is desirable. However, to engineer a non-cellulolytic yeast to be such a host requires synthetic biology techniques to transform multiple enzyme genes into its genome. A technique, named Promoter-based Gene Assembly and Simultaneous Overexpression (PGASO), that employs overlapping oligonucleotides for recombinatorial assembly of gene cassettes with individual promoters, was developed. PGASO was applied to engineer Kluyveromycesmarxianus KY3, which is a thermo- and toxin-tolerant yeast. We obtained a recombinant strain, called KR5, that is capable of simultaneously expressing exoglucanase and endoglucanase (both of Trichodermareesei), a beta-glucosidase (from a cow rumen fungus), a neomycin phosphotransferase, and a green fluorescent protein. High transformation efficiency and accuracy were achieved as ~63% of the transformants was confirmed to be correct. KR5 can utilize beta-glycan, cellobiose or CMC as the sole carbon source for growth and can directly convert cellobiose and beta-glycan to ethanol. This study provides the first example of multi-gene assembly in a single step in a yeast species other than Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We successfully engineered a yeast host with a five-gene cassette assembly and the new host is capable of co-expressing three types of cellulase genes. Our study shows that PGASO is an efficient tool for simultaneous expression of multiple enzymes in the kefir yeast KY3 and that KY3 can serve as a host for developing synthetic biology tools. 
21801352	20110802	Microb._Cell_Fact.	D016428 D013485 	Morphology engineering--osmolality and its effect on Aspergillus niger morphology and productivity.	The filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger is a widely used strain in a broad range of industrial processes from food to pharmaceutical industry. One of the most intriguing and often uncontrollable characteristics of this filamentous organism is its complex morphology, ranging from dense spherical pellets to viscous mycelia depending on culture conditions. Optimal productivity correlates strongly with a specific morphological form, thus making high demands on process control. In about 50 2L stirred tank cultivations the influence of osmolality on A. niger morphology and productivity was investigated. The specific productivity of fructofuranosidase producing strain A. niger SKAn 1015 could be increased notably from 0.5 to 9 U mg(-1) h(-1) around eighteen fold, by increasing the culture broth osmolality by addition of sodium chloride. The specific productivity of glucoamylase producing strain A. niger AB1.13, could be elevated using the same procedure. An optimal producing osmolality was shown to exist well over the standard osmolality at about 3.2 osmol kg(-1) depending on the strain. Fungal morphology of all cultivations was examined by microscope and characterized by digital image analysis. Particle shape parameters were combined to a dimensionless Morphology number, which enabled a comprehensive characterization of fungal morphology correlating closely with productivity. A novel method for determination of germination time in submerged cultivations by laser diffraction, introduced in this study, revealed a decelerated germination process with increasing osmolality. Through the introduction of the versatile Morphology number, this study provides the means for a desirable characterization of fungal morphology and demonstrates its relation to productivity. Furthermore, osmolality as a fairly new parameter in process engineering is introduced and found to affect fungal morphology and productivity. Osmolality might provide an auspicious and reliable approach to increase the productivity in industrial processes. Because of the predictable behavior fungal morphology showed in dependence of osmolality, a customization of morphology for process needs seems feasible. 
15535072	20041113	Mycol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Methods for the isolation, culture and assessment of the status of anaerobic rumen chytrids in both in vitro and in vivo systems.	Anaerobic fungi were isolated from both the rumen and faeces of nine sheep and a cow. A reliable and simple method for the isolation of anaerobic fungi using 24 h rumen incubated milled straw as the inoculum source was developed. We also evaluate the use of chitin measurements as an assay of rumen fungal biomass. Chitin levels were determined from various sample sources (milled barley straw used as the fungal culture substrate in vitro; plant particulate digests from the rumen (PLP) and centrifuged strained rumen fluid (CSRF) using both HPLC and colorimetric methods. Both methods were highly correlated and consequently the simpler colorimetric method was adopted for subsequent studies. There was also a high degree of correlation between anaerobic fungal cellulase activities with the assayed chitin content of milled barley straw cultures over 12 d of an in vitro experiment. The colorimetric chitin assay protocol was then used to assess the diurnal variation and abundance of rumen fungi in in vivo assays. We assessed the distribution of chitin (mg g(-1) dry matter) in various fractions of the strained rumen fluid (SRF) and PLP samples from the rumen of sheep. Chitin was detected in all fractions of strained rumen fluid but the main source of chitin in the samples may be attributed to the fungal biomass. We did not detect any significant differences in chitin levels over a 24 h sampling period. Finally, an SEM study on subsamples of milled straw and plant particulate matter used in the chitin assays, revealed that the pattern of the fungal development on substrate material differs from the culture medium to the rumen. 
10906961	20000725	EXS	D016428 D016454 	Inhibitors of chitinases.	In this review we describe inhibition of chitinases from bacteria, fungi, plants and animals by allosamidin and its derivatives, cyclic peptides, styloguanidin and divalent cations. Most information is available for allosamidin, whose important structural features necessary for inhibition are known. At least one N-acetylallosamine sugar must be present, and the spatial arrangement of the allosamizoline moiety are important for inhibition. Less complex compounds are therefore possible as lead structures for the development of agents interfering with chitinase. There is a pronounced species specificity in chitinase inhibition by allosamidin: half-maximal values are often in the range of 0.1-1 microM (e.g. in all arthropods), being lower in nematodes (0.048, 0.0002 microM, respectively) and amoeba (0.002-0.01 microM) and quite divergent in fungi (0.01-70 microM). These differences cannot be caused by the catalytic centers of family 18 and 19 chitinases. 
10684939	20000224	Nucleic_Acids_Res.	D016428 D013487 	Functional alpha-fragment of beta-galactosidase can be expressed from the mobile group I intron PpLSU3 embedded in yeast pre-ribosomal RNA derived from the chromosomal rDNA locus.	PpLSU3, a mobile group I intron found in the ribo-somal RNA genes of Physarum polycephalum, encodes the I-PpoI homing endonuclease. This enzyme represents one of the rare cases in nature where a protein is expressed from an RNA polymerase I transcript. Our previous results showed that the full length intron, but not a further processed species, is the messenger for I-PpoI, implying a role of the untranslated region (UTR) in gene expression. To study the function of the 3'-UTR in expression of the endonuclease and in splicing of the intron, we replaced the I-PpoI gene in PpLSU3 with the gene for the alpha-fragment of Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase, and then integrated this chimeric intron into all the chromosomal rDNA repeats of yeast. The resulting cells synthesized functional alpha-fragment, as evidenced by a complementation assay analogous to that used in E.coli. The beta-galactosidase activity thus provides an unusual and potentially valuable readout for Pol I transcription from chromosomal rDNA. This is the first example in which a eucaryotic homing endonuclease gene has been successfully replaced by a heterologous gene. Using deletion mutagenesis and a novel randomization approach with the alpha-fragment as a reporter, we found that a small segment of the 3'-UTR dramatically influences both splicing and protein expression. 
10698773	20000304	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Prevention of yeast spoilage in feed and food by the yeast mycocin HMK.	The yeast Williopsis mrakii produces a mycocin or yeast killer toxin designated HMK; this toxin exhibits high thermal stability, high pH stability, and a broad spectrum of activity against other yeasts. We describe construction of a synthetic gene for mycocin HMK and heterologous expression of this toxin in Aspergillus niger. Mycocin HMK was fused to a glucoamylase protein carrier, which resulted in secretion of biologically active mycocin into the culture media. A partial purification protocol was developed, and a comparison with native W. mrakii mycocin showed that the heterologously expressed mycocin had similar physiological properties and an almost identical spectrum of biological activity against a number of yeasts isolated from silage and yoghurt. Two food and feed production systems prone to yeast spoilage were used as models to assess the ability of mycocin HMK to act as a biocontrol agent. The onset of aerobic spoilage in mature maize silage was delayed by application of A. niger mycocin HMK on opening because the toxin inhibited growth of the indigenous spoilage yeasts. This helped maintain both higher lactic acid levels and a lower pH. In yoghurt spiked with dairy spoilage yeasts, A. niger mycocin HMK was active at all of the storage temperatures tested at which yeast growth occurred, and there was no resurgence of resistant yeasts. The higher the yeast growth rate, the more effective the killing action of the mycocin. Thus, mycocin HMK has potential applications in controlling both silage spoilage and yoghurt spoilage caused by yeasts. 
19874611	20091031	BMC_Syst_Biol	D003160 D016428 D013485 	13C-metabolic flux ratio and novel carbon path analyses confirmed that Trichoderma reesei uses primarily the respirative pathway also on the preferred carbon source glucose.	The filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei is an important host organism for industrial enzyme production. It is adapted to nutrient poor environments where it is capable of producing large amounts of hydrolytic enzymes. In its natural environment T. reesei is expected to benefit from high energy yield from utilization of respirative metabolic pathway. However, T. reesei lacks metabolic pathway reconstructions and the utilization of the respirative pathway has not been investigated on the level of in vivo fluxes. The biosynthetic pathways of amino acids in T. reesei supported by genome-level evidence were reconstructed with computational carbon path analysis. The pathway reconstructions were a prerequisite for analysis of in vivo fluxes. The distribution of in vivo fluxes in both wild type strain and cre1, a key regulator of carbon catabolite repression, deletion strain were quantitatively studied by performing 13C-labeling on both repressive carbon source glucose and non-repressive carbon source sorbitol. In addition, the 13C-labeling on sorbitol was performed both in the presence and absence of sophorose that induces the expression of cellulase genes. Carbon path analyses and the 13C-labeling patterns of proteinogenic amino acids indicated high similarity between biosynthetic pathways of amino acids in T. reesei and yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In contrast to S. cerevisiae, however, mitochondrial rather than cytosolic biosynthesis of Asp was observed under all studied conditions. The relative anaplerotic flux to the TCA cycle was low and thus characteristic to respiratory metabolism in both strains and independent of the carbon source. Only minor differences were observed in the flux distributions of the wild type and cre1 deletion strain. Furthermore, the induction of the hydrolytic gene expression did not show altered flux distributions and did not affect the relative amino acid requirements or relative anabolic and respirative activities of the TCA cycle. High similarity between the biosynthetic pathways of amino acids in T. reesei and yeast S. cerevisiae was concluded. In vivo flux distributions confirmed that T. reesei uses primarily the respirative pathway also when growing on the repressive carbon source glucose in contrast to Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which substantially diminishes the respirative pathway flux under glucose repression. 
1960723	19911120	J._Mol._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Characterization of the POL3 gene product from Schizosaccharomyces pombe indicates inter-species conservation of the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase delta.	The Schizosaccharomyces pombe POL3 gene was isolated by sequence homology with a region of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae POL3 gene, the only gene sequenced to date encoding the catalytic subunit of eukaryotic DNA polymerase delta. The fission yeast POL3 gene contains a 52 base-pair (bp) intron and encodes a 3600 bp transcript the 5'-end of which is located 32 bp upstream from the initiation codon. The polypeptides predicted from budding and fission yeast POL3 genes share 52% of conserved amino acid residues and have a 60% identical central region. This structural conservation of the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerases delta is probably related to functional constraints. A portion of the most conserved region was used to raise antibodies against an S. pombe polymerase delta/beta-galactosidase fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli. The purified antibodies recognized a 123,000 Da protein in S. pombe wild-type cell extracts and inhibited an aphidicolin-sensitive DNA polymerase activity that was distinct from DNA polymerase alpha. The antibodies also detected a 140,000 Da protein in extracts from different proliferating mammalian cells, indicating that the catalytic subunits of DNA polymerase delta are highly conserved between yeast and higher eukaryotes. 
1654681	19910701	Yeast	D003160 D016428 	Expression of the alpha-galactosidase from Cyamopsis tetragonoloba (guar) by Hansenula polymorpha.	The methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha, a host organism for the production of heterologous proteins, has been applied to produce the alpha-galactosidase from the plant Cyamopsis tetragonoloba (guar). The yeast/Escherichia coli shuttle expression vector used is based on the origin of replication of the endogenous 2 microns plasmid of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the LEU2 gene of S. cerevisiae for selection in H. polymorpha. In the expression vector, the alpha-galactosidase is controlled by the methanol-regulated promoter from the methanol oxidase gene, MOX, of H. polymorpha. The signal sequence of SUC2 (invertase) from the yeast S. cerevisiae, was used to ensure secretion of the alpha-galactosidase enzyme. After transformation and stabilization, the expression vector was stably integrated in the genome. The active alpha-galactosidase enzyme was efficiently secreted (greater than 85%) and after methanol induction, the expression level was 42 mg/l. Amino-terminal sequencing of the purified alpha-galactosidase enzyme synthesized by H. polymorpha showed that the S. cerevisiae invertase signal sequence was correctly processed by H. polymorpha. The secreted alpha-galactosidase was glycosylated and had a sugar content of 9.5%. The specific activity of the alpha-galactosidase produced by H. polymorpha was 38 U mg-1 compared to 100 U mg-1 for the guar alpha-galactosidase. Deglycosylation of the H. polymorpha alpha-galactosidase restored the specific activity completely. 
15959723	20050617	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	ooc1, a unique gene expressed only during growth of Hypocrea jecorina (anamorph: Trichoderma reesei) on cellulose.	To grow on cellulose as a carbon source, Hypocrea jecorina (Trichoderma reesei) expresses and secretes a number of cellulases. This mechanism of induction by an insoluble carbon source has been controversially explained, but is most frequently attributed to the formation of the beta-1,2-diglucoside sophorose, a powerful soluble inducer of cellulases, by means of transglycosylation by constitutive or conidia-bound beta-glycoside hydrolases. Some recent results, however, have put the role of sophorose as the mediator of cellulose induction in question. Here we used the rapid subtraction hybridization approach to clone genes expressed by H. jecorina in the presence of cellulose but not upon incubation with sophorose. From a total of 96 expressed sequence tag (EST) fragments, 37 putative positives--representing ten different genes--were selected and analysed. All of them were present in the genome sequence of H. jecorina. Three of them encode proteins known from H. jecorina, five encode enzymes involved in secondary metabolism and one gene encodes an as yet unknown member of glycoside hydrolase family 30. Two EST fragments had no orthologues in other fungi. One of them made up for 25 of the 37 EST fragments analysed. The corresponding gene (only expressed on cellulose, ooc1) encodes a small secreted 10.5-kDa protein. The ooc1 transcript is only detectable during growth on cellulose in darkness, but not on cellulose in light or in the presence of other cellulase inducers (sophorose, lactose), nor is it formed during growth on glucose or glycerol. Its expression is strongly reduced, but not completely abolished in the cellulase non-inducible mutant QM 9978. The results of this study provide evidence that induction of gene expression by cellulose does not necessarily correlate with that by sophorose. 
17681527	20070808	J._Insect_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Digestive enzymes in larvae of the leaf cutting ant, Acromyrmex subterraneus (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Attini).	The digestive physiology and biochemistry of larvae of the leaf-cutting ant Acromyrmex subterraneus were investigated here. The activity of digestive enzymes was evaluated in the labial glands, midgut epithelium (soluble and particulate fractions), and in the lumen contents, separated into endo and ectoperitrophic regions. Enzymes with high levels of activity were partially characterised using chromatography and electrophoresis techniques. Microscope observations were carried out and the anatomy of the larval digestive tract was described here for the first time. Larvae fed with pH indicator solutions showed the anterior portion of the midgut to be acidic and the posterior portion neutral to alkaline, indicating that the pH of the different regions of the midgut could optimise certain enzyme activities, whilst inhibiting others. The flow rate of the intestinal contents was also evaluated in larvae fed with a dye solution. The slow flow rate is probably due to closure of the rear end of the larval midgut. No compartmentalisation of digestive enzymes acting on oligosaccharides and disaccharides in the ectoperitrophic space and on polysaccharides in the endoperitrophic space was observed here, which could also be related to the closure of the midgut. The digestive physiology of these larvae is therefore similar to ancestral Holometabola, a paradox when considering the highly evolved nature of these insects. The larval midgut demonstrated a large diversity of enzyme activities with high levels of alpha-amylase, alpha-mannosidase, chitinase, alpha-glucosidase, beta-glucosidase and proteinase. High levels of chitinase and amylase activities were detected in the labial glands of larvae. The enzyme profile reflected the necessity of the larvae to degrade the fungal substrate, their sole diet, and a probable source of some of the digestive enzymes detected here. When compared to adults, the larvae had a greater diversity and higher levels of enzyme activity, highlighting their importance as the "digestive caste" of the colony. 
11747810	20011219	Cell	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Yeast Cbk1 and Mob2 activate daughter-specific genetic programs to induce asymmetric cell fates.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mothers and daughters have distinct fates. We show that Cbk1 kinase and its interacting protein Mob2 regulate this asymmetry by inducing daughter-specific genetic programs. Daughter-specific expression is due to Cbk1/Mob2-dependent activation and localization of the Ace2 transcription factor to the daughter nucleus. Ectopic localization of active Ace2 to mother nuclei is sufficient to activate daughter-specific genes in mothers. Eight genes are daughter-specific under the tested conditions, while two are daughter-specific only in saturated cultures. Some daughter-specific gene products contribute to cell separation by degrading the cell wall. These experiments define programs of gene expression specific to daughters and describe how those programs are controlled. 
12099813	20020709	Biomacromolecules	D016428 D013485 	Sequence analysis of chitooligosaccharides by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization postsource decay mass spectrometry.	Chitin/chitosan oligosaccharides composed of 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-glucopyranose (GlcNAc) and/or 2-amino-2-deoxy-D-glucopyranose (GlcN) were prepared by chemical degradation of chitin or chitosan and separated by gel permeation chromatography. Oligosaccharides obtained after enzymatic hydrolysis of chitosan [F(A) 0.19] with a fungal chitinase were derivatized by reductive amination with 2-aminoacridone and sequenced by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight postsource decay (PSD) mass spectrometry (MS). The sequence of a trimer, D1A2, was established as D-A-A. The composition of a hexamer D3A3 was ca. 65% D-A-D-D-A-A and 35% D-D-A-D-A-A. The PSD MS of a nonamer D5A4-amac revealed four isobaric species D-X-Y-D-X-Y-D-A-A, where A is GlcNAc, D is GlcN, and X and Y (X not equal Y) are mutually either D or A. This structure motif was also observed in a dodecamer D7A5 which was composed of eight isobaric sequences of the general formula (D-X-Y)(3)-D-A-A. 
2612911	19891214	Gene	D016428 	Isolation of a cDNA encoding Aspergillus oryzae Taka-amylase A: evidence for multiple related genes.	Complementary and genomic DNAs encoding Aspergillus oryzae Taka-amylase A (Taa) were cloned and sequenced. The coding sequence of the cDNA comprised the signal peptide [21 amino acids (aa)] and mature Taa (478 aa). The deduced aa sequence agrees well with the published aa sequence, except for one insertion, one deletion and ten aa substitutions. These differences might be due to the difference in the strains used. Sequence comparison of the cDNA and genomic DNA indicates the presence of eight introns ranging in size from 55 to 86 bp. Southern-blot analysis showed the presence of at least two Taa genes, and the second gene (Taa-G2) was isolated. All the intron/exon junctions follow the 'GT-AG' rule, except for intron I of the first gene (Taa-G1). The 5'-noncoding region was well conserved among the genomic genes and contained sequences similar to 'CAAT' and 'TATA' boxes at nucleotides -121 and -31, counted from the transcription start point, respectively. The 3'-noncoding regions, however, differed significantly from each other. Taa-G2 contains a sequence identical to that of several independent cDNA clones, suggesting that it may be the major transcribed gene in A. oryzae. 
23394294	20130212	BMC_Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Fibres from flax overproducing β-1,3-glucanase show increased accumulation of pectin and phenolics and thus higher antioxidant capacity.	Recently, in order to improve the resistance of flax plants to pathogen infection, transgenic flax that overproduces β-1,3-glucanase was created. β-1,3-glucanase is a PR protein that hydrolyses the β-glucans, which are a major component of the cell wall in many groups of fungi. For this study, we used fourth-generation field-cultivated plants of the Fusarium -resistant transgenic line B14 to evaluate how overexpression of the β-1,3-glucanase gene influences the quantity, quality and composition of flax fibres, which are the main product obtained from flax straw. Overproduction of β-1,3-glucanase did not affect the quantity of the fibre obtained from the flax straw and did not significantly alter the essential mechanical characteristics of the retted fibres. However, changes in the contents of the major components of the cell wall (cellulose, hemicellulose, pectin and lignin) were revealed. Overexpression of the β-1,3-glucanase gene resulted in higher cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin contents and a lower lignin content in the fibres. Increases in the uronic acid content in particular fractions (with the exception of the 1 M KOH-soluble fraction of hemicelluloses) and changes in the sugar composition of the cell wall were detected in the fibres of the transgenic flax when compared to the contents for the control plants. The callose content was lower in the fibres of the transgenic flax. Additionally, the analysis of phenolic compound contents in five fractions of the cell wall revealed important changes, which were reflected in the antioxidant potential of these fractions. Overexpression of the β-1,3-glucanase gene has a significant influence on the biochemical composition of flax fibres. The constitutive overproduction of β-1,3-glucanase causes a decrease in the callose content, and the resulting excess glucose serves as a substrate for the production of other polysaccharides. The monosaccharide excess redirects the phenolic compounds to bind with polysaccharides instead of to partake in lignin synthesis. The mechanical properties of the transgenic fibres are strengthened by their improved biochemical composition, and the increased antioxidant potential of the fibres supports the potential use of transgenic flax fibres for biomedical applications. 
24015063	20130910	Mycobiology	D016428 	Comparison of dyes for easy detection of extracellular cellulases in fungi.	To evaluate which dye is effective in a plate assay for detecting extracellular cellulase activity produced by fungi, four chromogenic dyes including remazol brilliant blue, phenol red, congo red, and tryphan blue, were compared using chromagenic media. For the comparison, 19 fungal species belonging to three phyla, ascomycota, basidiomycota, and zygomycota were inoculated onto yeast nitrogen-based media containing different carbon substrates such as cellulose (carboxylmethyl and avicel types) and cellobiose labeled with each of the four dyes. Overall, the formation of clear zone on agar media resulting from the degradation of the substrates by the enzymes secreted from the test fungi was most apparent with media containing congo red. The detection frequency of cellulase activity was also most high on congo red-supplemented media. The results of this study showed that congo red is better dye than other three dyes in a plate assay for fungal enzyme detection.  
603339	19771215	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 D013486 	Glycogen and other soluble glucans from chytridiomycete and oomycete species.	Dry weight, protein, lipid, and glycogen were determined at various times during cultivation of the Chytridiomycetes, Rhizophydium sphaerotheca and Monoblepharella elongata. M. elongata had relatively stable levels of glycogen, but, in R. sphaerotheca, glycogen levels showed significant changes, particularly in older cultures in which a depletion of glycogen was accompanied by a marked thickening of the cell walls. Glycogen was a significant cellular constituent in both chytridiomycete species. In R. sphaerotheca and M. elongata, respectively, glycogen accounted for as much as 6% and 8.1% of the dry weight. In purified glycogens of both species, only alpha-1,4- and alpha-1,6-linked glucosyl residues were detected and the absorbance spectra of I2-complexes were similar to those of other well characterized glycogens. Purified Rhizophydium glycogen had a beta-amylolysis limit of 43%, and a CL of approximately 12. For the Monoblepharella polysaccharide, the respective values were 45% and 11. In extracts of the Oomycetes, Pythium debaryanum, Mindeniella spinospora, and Apodachlya sp., only beta-1,3- and beta-1,6-linked glucosyl residues were detected. These glucans were not iodophilic nor were they sensitive to alpha-amylase and beta-amylase. The properties of the oomycete polysaccharides suggested that they were similar to the mycolaminarans of Phytophthora spp. Although both investigated chytridiomycete species produced glycogen with typical properties, glycogen was apparently absent in the investigated Oomycetes. 
16878976	20060802	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Structure and mechanism of chitin deacetylase from the fungal pathogen Colletotrichum lindemuthianum.	The fungal pathogen Colletotrichum lindemuthianum secretes an endo-chitin de-N-acetylase (ClCDA) to modify exposed hyphal chitin during penetration and infection of plants. Although a significant amount of biochemical data is available on fungal chitin de-N-acetylases, no structural data exist. Here we describe the 1.8 A crystal structure of a ClCDA product complex and the analysis of the reaction mechanism using Hammett linear free energy relationships, subsite probing, and atomic absorption spectroscopy studies. The structural data in combination with biochemical data reveal that ClCDA consists of a single domain encompassing a mononuclear metalloenzyme which employs a conserved His-His-Asp zinc-binding triad closely associated with the conserved catalytic base (aspartic acid) and acid (histidine) to carry out acid/base catalysis. The data presented here indicate that ClCDA possesses a highly conserved substrate-binding groove, with subtle alterations that influence substrate specificity and subsite affinity. Strikingly, the structure also shows that the hexahistidine purification tag appears to form a tight interaction with the active site groove. The enzyme requires occupancy of at least the 0 and +1 subsites by (GlcNAc)(2) for activity and proceeds through a tetrahedral oxyanion intermediate. 
16678171	20060509	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Transcription regulation of the alpha-glucanase gene agn1 by cell separation transcription factor Ace2p in fission yeast.	During the final stage of the cell division cycle in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, transcription factor Ace2p activates expression of genes involved in the separation of newly formed daughter cells, such as agn1+, which encodes the alpha-glucanase Agn1p. The agn1 promoter contains three copies of the nucleotide sequence motif CCAGCC, whose presence seems to correlate with Ace2p-mediated transcription activation. Here, we describe a simple plate-based assay utilizing as a reporter the secreted glucoamylase of Arxula adeninivorans to investigate the function of this motif. We show that not all three repeats, but only the two most proximal to the transcription start point, act as an upstream activating sequence (UAS). Finally, we demonstrate that this UAS is essential for agn1 promoter activity in vivo. 
24031982	20130914	Braz._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Lignocellulolytic enzyme production of Pleurotus ostreatus growth in agroindustrial wastes.	The mushroom Pleurotus ostreatus has nutritional and medicinal characteristics that depend on the growth substrate. In nature, this fungus grows on dead wood, but it can be artificially cultivated on agricultural wastes (coffee husks, eucalyptus sawdust, corncobs and sugar cane bagasse). The degradation of agricultural wastes involves some enzyme complexes made up of oxidative (laccase, manganese peroxidase and lignin peroxidase) and hydrolytic enzymes (cellulases, xylanases and tanases). Understanding how these enzymes work will help to improve the productivity of mushroom cultures and decrease the potential pollution that can be caused by inadequate discharge of the agroindustrial residues. The objective of this work was to assess the activity of the lignocellulolytic enzymes produced by two P. ostreatus strains (PLO 2 and PLO 6). These strains were used to inoculate samples of coffee husks, eucalyptus sawdust or eucalyptus bark add with or without 20 % rice bran. Every five days after substrate inoculation, the enzyme activity and soluble protein concentration were evaluated. The maximum activity of oxidative enzymes was observed at day 10 after inoculation, and the activity of the hydrolytic enzymes increased during the entire period of the experiment. The results show that substrate composition and colonization time influenced the activity of the lignocellulolytic enzymes.  
16579483	20060404	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Purification and characterization of a cellobiohydrolase from the thermophilic fungus Chaetomium thermophilus CT2].	Chaetomium thermophilus CT2 was a cellulolytic fungus. It was a widely-existing saprophyte, which grower rapidly in soil. The cellulases synthesized by C. thermophilus CT2 was overall, consisting of three principal types of enzymes. The cellobiohydrolase was one of these three cellulases, which was associated with the endo-beta-1,4-glucanase and beta-glucosidase activities. C. thermophilus CT2 produced cellobiohydrolase available at 50 degrees C, when grown on ferment liquid substrate, containing 1% Avicel, 0.14% (NH4 )2SO4, 0.2% KH2PO4, 0.03% CaC2 x 2H2O, 0.03% MnSO4 x 7H2O, 0.1% peptone, 0.05% yeast extract, 0.1% Tween 80 and trace element solution at 1mL/L, containing 18mmol/L FeSO4 x 7H2O, 6.6mmol/L MnSO4, 4.8mmol/L ZnSO4 x 7H2O and 15mmol/L COCl2. A cellobiohydrolase was purified to homogeneity by an inexpensive and straightforward method for extraction of the enzyme involving fractional ammonium sulphate precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sepharose Fast Flow, gel filtration on Sephacryl S-100 and ion-exchange chromatography on Q Sepharose Fast Flow. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 66.3kDa by 12.5% SDS-PAGE and was to be 67.1kDa by gel filtration on Sephacryl S-100 respectively. Kinetic studies of the purified cellobiohydrolase of C. thermophilus CT2 showed that the Km for p-NPC (p-trophenylbeta-d-cellobioside) was 0.956mmol/L as determined from a Lineweaver-Bark plot. Optimum enzyme activity was at 65 degrees C and pH5.0. It was thermostable at 60 degrees C and remained 20% activity after 20min at 80 degrees C. The half life time of the enzyme at 70 degrees C was 1h. It indicated that the cellobiohydrolase possessed of excellent acid stability and thermostable property. The properties of the cellobiohydrolase make it possible to be good material in scientific researches of protein thermostable mechanism and good model for designing and constructing a new type protein in industry. The enzyme may also provide instructive insight on the diversity and mechanism of cellulose degradation by C. thermophilus CT2. As a thermophilic fungus C. thermophilus CT2 is an attractive potential source of cellulases. It indicates that C. thermophilus CT2 may be a new excellent industrialized fungus for producing cellulases through molecule biology means. 
24021641	20130912	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Phylogenetic analysis and substrate specificity of GH2 β-mannosidases from Aspergillus species.	Phylogenetic analysis of glycoside hydrolase family 2 including Aspergillus sequences and characterised β-mannosidases from other organisms, clusters putative Aspergillus β-mannosidases in two distinct clades (A and B). Aspergillus species have at least one paralog in each of the two clades. It appears that clade A members are extracellular and clade B members intracellular. Substrate specificity analysis of MndA of Aspergillus niger (clade A) and MndB of Aspergillus nidulans (clade B) show that MndB, in contrast to MndA, does not hydrolyse polymeric mannan and has probably evolved to hydrolyse small unbranched β-mannosides like mannobiose. A 3D-model of MndB provides further insight.  
11259593	20010322	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	The Cbk1p pathway is important for polarized cell growth and cell separation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	During the early stages of budding, cell wall remodeling and polarized secretion are concentrated at the bud tip (apical growth). The CBK1 gene, encoding a putative serine/threonine protein kinase, was identified in a screen designed to isolate mutations that affect apical growth. Analysis of cbk1Delta cells reveals that Cbk1p is required for efficient apical growth, proper mating projection morphology, bipolar bud site selection in diploid cells, and cell separation. Epitope-tagged Cbk1p localizes to both sides of the bud neck in late anaphase, just prior to cell separation. CBK1 and another gene, HYM1, were previously identified in a screen for genes involved in transcriptional repression and proposed to function in the same pathway. Deletion of HYM1 causes phenotypes similar to those observed in cbk1Delta cells and disrupts the bud neck localization of Cbk1p. Whole-genome transcriptional analysis of cbk1Delta suggests that the kinase regulates the expression of a number of genes with cell wall-related functions, including two genes required for efficient cell separation: the chitinase-encoding gene CTS1 and the glucanase-encoding gene SCW11. The Ace2p transcription factor is required for expression of CTS1 and has been shown to physically interact with Cbk1p. Analysis of ace2Delta cells reveals that Ace2p is required for cell separation but not for polarized growth. Our results suggest that Cbk1p and Hym1p function to regulate two distinct cell morphogenesis pathways: an ACE2-independent pathway that is required for efficient apical growth and mating projection formation and an ACE2-dependent pathway that is required for efficient cell separation following cytokinesis. Cbk1p is most closely related to the Neurospora crassa Cot-1; Schizosaccharomyces pombe Orb6; Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila, and human Ndr; and Drosophila and mammalian WARTS/LATS kinases. Many Cbk1-related kinases have been shown to regulate cellular morphology. 
19193645	20090206	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Crystal structure of glycoside hydrolase family 55 {beta}-1,3-glucanase from the basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	Glycoside hydrolase family 55 consists of beta-1,3-glucanases mainly from filamentous fungi. A beta-1,3-glucanase (Lam55A) from the Basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium hydrolyzes beta-1,3-glucans in the exo-mode with inversion of anomeric configuration and produces gentiobiose in addition to glucose from beta-1,3/1,6-glucans. Here we report the crystal structure of Lam55A, establishing the three-dimensional structure of a member of glycoside hydrolase 55 for the first time. Lam55A has two beta-helical domains in a single polypeptide chain. These two domains are separated by a long linker region but are positioned side by side, and the overall structure resembles a rib cage. In the complex, a gluconolactone molecule is bound at the bottom of a pocket between the two beta-helical domains. Based on the position of the gluconolactone molecule, Glu-633 appears to be the catalytic acid, whereas the catalytic base residue could not be identified. The substrate binding pocket appears to be able to accept a gentiobiose unit near the cleavage site, and a long cleft runs from the pocket, in accordance with the activity of this enzyme toward various beta-1,3-glucan oligosaccharides. In conclusion, we provide important features of the substrate-binding site at the interface of the two beta-helical domains, demonstrating an unexpected variety of carbohydrate binding modes. 
17234842	20070120	Poult._Sci.	D016428 	On the interactions between Fusarium toxin-contaminated wheat and nonstarch polysaccharide hydrolyzing enzymes in diets of broilers on performance, intestinal viscosity, and carryover of deoxynivalenol.	Wheat was inoculated with Fusarium culmorum. Broiler diets were formulated to contain this Fusarium-infected wheat (FIW) or control wheat (CW) at a proportion of 60% and were prepared without and with an exogenous nonstarch polysaccharide (NSP) hydrolyzing enzyme preparation [endo-1,4-beta-xylanase (EC 3.2.1.8) 1,000 FXU/g; ZY68, Lohmann Animal Health GmbH & Co. KG, Cuxhaven, Germany] to test the hypothesis that Fusarium infection-related increases in NSP hydrolyzing enzyme activities could compensate for the deleterious effects of the fungal-origin mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). Deoxynivalenol concentration of CW and FIW amounted to 0.045 and 2.5 mg/kg of DM, respectively. After 35 d, the level of feed intake was generally lower in broilers fed the diets containing the FIW. Feed intake was stimulated by the addition of the NSP enzyme to both diet types. Similar relationships were observed for live weight gain, although the enzyme effect was much more pronounced for the CW-fed broilers, who performed even worse than the broilers fed the unsupplemented FIW. Viscosity was significantly reduced in the jejunum and the ileum by supplemental exogenous NSP hydrolyzing enzyme. However, this effect was more pronounced when the enzyme was added to the control diet, as indicated by the significant interactions between wheat and NSP enzyme. Concentrations of DON and its metabolite deepoxy-DON in plasma, bile, liver, and breast meat were lower than the detection limits of the applied HPLC-method. Overall, it can be concluded that feeding FIW might positively influence broiler performance and nutritional physiology, as indicated by the reduced intestinal viscosity and the less pronounced effects of addition of an exogenous NSP hydrolyzing enzyme preparation. 
3384335	19880101	Gene	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Nucleotide sequence of the celC gene encoding endoglucanase C of Clostridium thermocellum.	The nucleotide sequence of the cellulase gene celC, encoding endoglucanase C of Clostridium thermocellum, has been determined. The coding region of 1032 bp was identified by comparison with the N-terminal amino acid (aa) sequence of endoglucanase C purified from Escherichia coli. The ATG start codon is preceded by an AGGAGG sequence typical of ribosome-binding sites in Gram-positive bacteria. The derived amino acid sequence corresponds to a protein of Mr 40,439. Amino acid analysis and apparent Mr of endoglucanase C are consistent with the amino acid sequence as derived from the DNA sequencing data. A proposed N-terminal 21-aa residue leader (signal) sequence differs from other prokaryotic signal peptides and is non-functional in E. coli. Most of the protein bears no resemblance to the endoglucanases A, B, and D of the same organism. However, a short region of homology between endoglucanases A and C was identified, which is similar to the established active sites of lysozymes and to related sequences of fungal cellulases. 
3447733	19860101	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Further evidence for the alternative pathway of trehalose synthesis linked to maltose utilization in Saccharomyces.	Yeast strains bearing a deficiency in trehalose-6-phosphate synthase activity are unable to accumulate trehalose on any carbon source unless they contain one of the MAL genes. If the gene is inducible then synthesis of trehalose occurs specifically during growth on maltose: when the MAL gene is constitutive then trehalose accumulation can also be seen when cells are grown on glucose. Different systems for trehalose synthesis were suggested: one of them would require the UDPG-linked trehalose synthase whereas the second would utilize an alternative pathway. We proposed a mechanism by which the gene-product of a MAL gene would serve as a common positive regulator for the expression of the genes coding for maltose permease, alpha-glucosidase and some component of the trehalose accumulation system. In order to elucidate this novel pathway a strain lacking UDPG-linked trehalose synthase activity and harboring a defect in maltose uptake was constructed. Excessive maltose uptake resulted in accumulation of intracellular maltose, and twice as much trehalose as in a control strain. Partial inhibition of hexokinase by xylose affected the ratio between internal maltose and trehalose and significantly reduced glycogen synthesis. Sodium fluoride also blocked glycogen synthesis but allowed for trehalose accumulation. Moreover, a mutant which lacks hexokinase I and II was unable to accumulate trehalose when grown on glucose in spite of the presence of a constitutive MAL2 gene. These results suggest that trehalose synthesis would require G-6-P formation derived from maltose. Such a deviation would allow for slowing down the glycolytic flux which, in turn, would favour efficient maltose utilization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
18331049	20080312	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 	Optimization of the media ingredients for cutinase production from Colleotrichum lindemuthianum using mixture design experiments.	Optimal concentrations of yeast extract, glucose and potassium phosphate in the fermentation medium have been identified for the maximum cutinase production from the fungi Colleotrichum lindemuthianum. A simplex lattice experimental design for mixtures was used to identify concentration ranges that yield maximum production. Three sets of experiments were performed all involving three ingredients. The sets of experiments differ in the number of concentration levels considered. In the first set we consider four concentration levels (i.e., 0%, 33%, 67%, 100%), and in the second and third sets we consider five and six levels, respectively. Results showed that the interactions among the nutrient ingredients are best captured when five- and six-level experiments are carried out. An algorithm has been proposed in this study to design the optimal medium. Various models were also developed to predict the enzyme production, and it is concluded that the cubic model obtained using six-level experimental data gives the best model. The study also highlighted the synergistic interaction between yeast extract and glucose toward cutinase production. 
19805272	20091007	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Tracking the roots of cellulase hyperproduction by the fungus Trichoderma reesei using massively parallel DNA sequencing.	Trichoderma reesei (teleomorph Hypocrea jecorina) is the main industrial source of cellulases and hemicellulases harnessed for the hydrolysis of biomass to simple sugars, which can then be converted to biofuels such as ethanol and other chemicals. The highly productive strains in use today were generated by classical mutagenesis. To learn how cellulase production was improved by these techniques, we performed massively parallel sequencing to identify mutations in the genomes of two hyperproducing strains (NG14, and its direct improved descendant, RUT C30). We detected a surprisingly high number of mutagenic events: 223 single nucleotides variants, 15 small deletions or insertions, and 18 larger deletions, leading to the loss of more than 100 kb of genomic DNA. From these events, we report previously undocumented non-synonymous mutations in 43 genes that are mainly involved in nuclear transport, mRNA stability, transcription, secretion/vacuolar targeting, and metabolism. This homogeneity of functional categories suggests that multiple changes are necessary to improve cellulase production and not simply a few clear-cut mutagenic events. Phenotype microarrays show that some of these mutations result in strong changes in the carbon assimilation pattern of the two mutants with respect to the wild-type strain QM6a. Our analysis provides genome-wide insights into the changes induced by classical mutagenesis in a filamentous fungus and suggests areas for the generation of enhanced T. reesei strains for industrial applications such as biofuel production. 
5690538	19680601	Biochem._J.	D016428 	Metabolism of the reserve polysaccharide of Streptococcus mitis. Some properties of a pullulanase.	1. A pullulanase has been separated from cell extracts of Streptococcus mitis. The enzyme was freed from transglucosylase by fractionation with ammonium sulphate. 2. Pullulanase was produced in the absence of inducers, and addition of glucose or maltose to the broth did not increase the yield of enzyme. 3. The pullulanase acted rapidly on alpha-(1-->6)-bonds in substrates having the structure alpha-maltodextrinyl-(1-->6)-maltodextrin, but had no action on isomaltose, 6-alpha-glucosylmaltodextrins or 6-alpha-maltodextrinylglucoses. 4. 6-alpha-Maltotriosylmaltodextrins were hydrolysed over 10 times faster than 6-alpha-maltosylmaltodextrins. 5. The branch linkages of amylopectin phosphorylase limit dextrin, glycogen phosphorylase limit dextrin and glycogen beta-amylase limit dextrin were hydrolysed. The action of pullulanase on amylopectin and glycogen was accompanied by a rise in the iodine stain of 50% and 30% respectively. 6. A reversal of pullulanase action occurred on incubation with high concentrations of maltotriose. Condensation of maltosyl units to form a branched tetrasaccharide occurred less readily. 7. S. mitis pullulanase was rapidly inactivated at temperatures higher than 40 degrees , and the enzyme did not recover activity on storage at room temperature. 
14574112	20031024	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Deletion of BGL2 results in an increased chitin level in the cell wall of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	It is shown that the deletion of BGL2 gene leads to increase in chitin content in the cell wall of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A part of the additional chitin can be removed from the bgl2Delta cell wall by alkali or trypsin treatment. Chitin synthase 1 (Chs1) activity was increased by 60 % in bgl2Delta mutant. No increase in chitin synthase 3 (Chs3) activity in bgl2Delta cells was observed, while they became more sensitive to Nikkomycin Z. The chitin level in the cell walls of a strain lacking both BGL2 and CHS3 genes was higher than that in chs3Delta and lower than that in bgl2Delta strains. Together these data indicate that the deletion of BGL2 results in the accumulation and abnormal incorporation of chitin into the cell wall of S. cerevisiae, and both Chs1 and Chs3 take part in a response to BGL2 deletion in S. cerevisiae cells. 
17888539	20070925	Int._J._Food_Microbiol.	D016428 D016454 	New perspectives in safety and quality enhancement of wine through selection of yeasts based on the parietal adsorption activity.	The present article aims to review research papers that focus on the parietal adsorption activity of wine yeast and on its contribution to the enhancement of wine safety and quality. There is a great diversity among yeasts for their parietal adsorption activity: the outermost layer of the cell wall has a chemical composition that notably varies from yeast to yeast. Parietal mannoproteins can contain phosphate, pyruvate, or glucuronic acid, which impart negative charges, modifying the electrostatic and ionic interactions with wine components. The following could give a good reason to propose a specific selection of wine yeasts based on their parietal adsorption activity to improve wine safety and quality: (a) ochratoxin A content of wines is greatly reduced by expressly selected yeasts, sequestering the toxin during winemaking; (b) yeast influences concentration and composition of phenolic compounds in wine, above all by adsorbing them on cell wall; (c) among grape pigments, anthocyanins, in particular, may be adsorbed by yeast cell wall; and (d) yeast can also interact with wine colour producing anthocyanin-beta-d-glucosidase, pyruvic acid, and acetaldehyde or releasing mannoproteins and different polysaccharides. Genomic strategies could also be used to obtain a further enhancement of the adsorption/non-adsorption activity of wine yeasts. Based on winemaking requirements and on parietal adsorption activity, a specific selection of yeasts might be performed: (a) to protect wine colour during red winemaking, (b) to remove residual wine colour during white winemaking, (c) to selectively remove ochratoxin A, and (d) to protect phenolic compounds responsible for antioxidant activity. 
10075414	19990313	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	Transcription of the pcbAB, pcbC and penDE genes of Penicillium chrysogenum AS-P-78 is repressed by glucose and the repression is not reversed by alkaline pHs.	Glucose repressed transcription of the penicillin biosynthesis genes pcbAB, pcbC and penDE when added at inoculation time to cultures of Penicillium chrysogenum AS-P-78 but it had little repressive effect when added at 12 h and no effect when added at 24 or 36 h. A slight increase in the expression of pcbC and penDE (and to a smaller extent of pcbAB) was observed in glucose-grown cultures at pH 6.8, 7.4 and 8.0 as compared with pH 6.2, but alkaline pHs did not override the strong repression exerted by glucose. Transcription of the actin gene used as control was not significantly affected by glucose or alkaline pHs. Repression by glucose of the three penicillin biosynthetic genes was also observed using the lacZ reporter gene coupled to each of the three promoters in monocopy transformants with the constructions integrated at the pyrG locus. Glucose repression of the three genes encoding enzymes of penicillin biosynthesis therefore appears to be exerted by a regulatory mechanism independent from pH regulation. 
2549957	19890515	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	The mechanism of fungal cellulase action. Synergism between enzyme components of Penicillium pinophilum cellulase in solubilizing hydrogen bond-ordered cellulose.	Studies on reconstituted mixtures of extensively purified cellobiohydrolases I and II and the five major endoglucanases of the fungus Penicillium pinophilum have provided some new information on the mechanism by which crystalline cellulose in the form of the cotton fibre is rendered soluble. It was observed that there was little or no synergistic activity either between purified cellobiohydrolases I and II, or, contrary to previous findings, between the individual cellobiohydrolases and the endoglucanases. Cotton fibre was degraded to a significant degree only when three enzymes were present in the reconstituted enzyme mixture: these were cellobiohydrolases I and II and some specific endoglucanases. The optimum ratio of the cellobiohydrolases was 1:1. Only a trace of endoglucanase activity was required to make the mixture of cellobiohydrolases I and II effective. The addition of cellobiohydrolases I and II individually to endoglucanases from other cellulolytic fungi resulted in little synergistic activity; however, a mixture of endoglucanases and both cellobiohydrolases was effective. It is suggested that current concepts of the mechanism of cellulase action may be the result of incompletely resolved complexes between cellobiohydrolase and endoglucanase activities. It was found that such complexes in filtrates of P. pinophilium or Trichoderma reesei were easily resolved using affinity chromatography on a column of p-aminobenzyl-1-thio-beta-D-cellobioside. 
405048	19770527	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 	Comparison of four purified extracellular 1,4-beta-D-glucan cellobiohydrolase enzymes from Trichoderma viride.	Four electrophoretically distinct 1,4-beta-D-glucan cellobiohydrolase enzymes (exo-cellobiohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.91) from Trichoderma viride have been purified to homogeneity. Three enzymes (A, B, and C) were from a commercial T. viride preparation whereas the other (D) was from T. viride QM 9123 grown on cellulose in submerged culture. The enzymes were similar with respect to ultraviolet light absorption, amino acid and amino sugar composition, heat stability, molecular weight, specific activity, and carboxyterminal residues, indicating very nearly identical polypeptide portions. The enzymes also exhibited immunological cross-reactivity. The enzymes differed most in the content and composition of covalently bound neutral carbohydrate. 
6370962	19840401	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Activation of trehalase by membrane-depolarizing agents in yeast vegetative cells and ascospores.	The membrane-depolarizing agents 2,4-dinitrophenol, carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone, and nystatin are known to cause a rapid increase in the cyclic AMP level in fungal cells. Addition of these proton ionophores to yeast stationary-phase cells or ascospores causes an immediate 10-fold increase in trehalase activity. This observation is in agreement with a role for cyclic AMP-induced phosphorylation in the activation process of trehalase. It also provides an explanation for previous results on the induction of trehalose breakdown by 2,4-dinitrophenol in resting yeast cells. 
15362290	20040915	Acta_Microbiol_Immunol_Hung	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Beta-amylases from various fungal strains. A review.	An overview presentation is made on the current global status of fungal beta3-amylases, their characteristics and applications in various industries. Among the few available report on beta-amylase producing fungal strains, many showed a preference for a cultivation temperature of 28 degrees C, acidic pH and soluble starch as an inducer of enzyme synthesis. In some fungal strains, alpha-amylase and alpha-glucosidases were found to be present as major contaminating enzymes. Although the existence of a few starch digesting and raw starch adsorbing fungal strains were reported, detailed study on molecular biology of corresponding fungal genes was not available. 
14610026	20031112	J._Exp._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Chitin metabolism in insects: structure, function and regulation of chitin synthases and chitinases.	Chitin is one of the most important biopolymers in nature. It is mainly produced by fungi, arthropods and nematodes. In insects, it functions as scaffold material, supporting the cuticles of the epidermis and trachea as well as the peritrophic matrices lining the gut epithelium. Insect growth and morphogenesis are strictly dependent on the capability to remodel chitin-containing structures. For this purpose, insects repeatedly produce chitin synthases and chitinolytic enzymes in different tissues. Coordination of chitin synthesis and its degradation requires strict control of the participating enzymes during development. In this review, we will summarize recent advances in understanding chitin synthesis and its degradation in insects. 
19858200	20091028	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	High speed atomic force microscopy visualizes processive movement of Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I on crystalline cellulose.	Fungal cellobiohydrolases act at liquid-solid interfaces. They have the ability to hydrolyze cellulose chains of a crystalline substrate because of their two-domain structure, i.e. cellulose-binding domain and catalytic domain, and unique active site architecture. However, the details of the action of the two domains on crystalline cellulose are still unclear. Here, we present real time observations of Trichoderma reesei (Tr) cellobiohydrolase I (Cel7A) molecules sliding on crystalline cellulose, obtained with a high speed atomic force microscope. The average velocity of the sliding movement on crystalline cellulose was 3.5 nm/s, and interestingly, the catalytic domain without the cellulose-binding domain moved with a velocity similar to that of the intact TrCel7A enzyme. However, no sliding of a catalytically inactive enzyme (mutant E212Q) or a variant lacking tryptophan at the entrance of the active site tunnel (mutant W40A) could be detected. This indicates that, besides the hydrolysis of glycosidic bonds, the loading of a cellulose chain into the active site tunnel is also essential for the enzyme movement. 
15162396	20040527	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 	Production of lignocellulolytic enzymes by Trametes gallica and detection of polysaccharide hydrolase and laccase activities in polyacrylamide gels.	White rot fungus Trametes gallica was studied for the production of lignocellulolytic enzymes: cellulase, xylanase, laccase, manganese-dependent peroxidase (MnP), and lignin peroxidase (LiP). The results demonstrated that low-nitrogen (2.2 mM N) and surface stationary cultivation favored production of extracellular MnP. MnP activity reached 118.1 UL(-1) while T. gallica was grown in a low-nitrogen culture containing phenylalanine. However, laccase levels observed in high-nitrogen (22 mM N) agitated cultures were much greater than those seen in low-nitrogen. The N source experiments seemed to reveal that NH4+ plays an important role in inducing MnP and laccase of the fungus. Results showed that T. gallica produces a series of the lignocellulolytic enzymes, and needs high N to produce all the enzymes during solid-state fermentation of wheat straw. This paper also presents a modified zymogram procedure to detect xylanase and laccase of T. gallica in polyacrylamide gel. Xylanase in crude enzyme of T. gallica was displayed by contacting protein gel strips with xylan substrate gels and by staining with iodine. By immersing the protein gel strips in o-tolidine solution, the blue-green zones representing laccase activity were visualized against a colorless background. 
8220235	19930801	Biochem._Mol._Biol._Int.	D016428 	Polygalacturonase isozymes from Botrytis cinerea grown on apple pectin.	Five isozymes (four acidic and one basic) of polygalacturonase were separated by chromatofocusing from the culture filtrate of Botrytis cinerea grown on apple pectin. The isozymes, designated as Polygalacturonase I to V, have isoelectric points of 9.7, 4.9, 4.6, 3.7, and 2.7, respectively, with Polygalacturonase III exhibiting the highest specific activity. Polygalacturonase I appeared to function as an endo-polygalacturonase while the other four isozymes act as exo-polygalacturonases. The pH optima of the isozymes range from pH 4.5 to 5.5 with Polygalacturonase V being less sensitive to higher pH compared with the rest of the isozymes. 
4426701	19740901	Infect._Immun.	D016428 	Inhibition by lysozyme of growth of the spherule phase of Coccidioides immitis in vitro.	Development of mature endosporulating spherules from an endospore inoculum was markedly inhibited by human or hen egg-white (HEW) lysozyme at 5 mug/ml. Mature spherules formed in medium containing 5 mug per lysozyme per ml (3.3 x 10(-7) M) were approximately 50% smaller than control spherules. In addition, lysozyme induced a large portion of the endospore inoculum to revert to the mycelial growth phase. Increasing lysozyme concentrations to 10 or 20 mug/ml prompted a nearly complete reversion of the inoculum to the mycelial phase. Mature endosporulating spherules removed from growth medium and resuspended in a solution of human or HEW lysozyme at 18 mug/ml in distilled water prompted leakage of four to five times as much of materials absorbing maximally at 260 nm into the supernatant as untreated control spherules during 90 min of incubation. This four- to fivefold increase in nucleotide loss was evident at 4, 25, and 37 C. The permeability of 1-day-old immature spherules and 8-day-old endospores was considerably altered by lysozyme treatment of cells suspended in distilled water. Large amounts of potassium and nucleotides were rapidly lost by each type of cell when treated with 20 mug of lysozyme per ml. After 270 min of exposure to lysozyme, 98% of the immature spherules and 25% of the endospores were nonviable. Lysozyme adsorption by formalin-killed spherules in the presence of varying concentrations of calcium ion and the rapid alteration of permeability seen after lysozyme treatment suggested that the cell membrane was damaged as a result of binding lysozyme. 
14678162	20031218	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Screening and typing of Patagonian wine yeasts for glycosidase activities.	The purpose of this study was to select autochthonous glycosidase producer yeasts with potential use in industrial production of Patagonian red wines. The study was carried out in oenological autochthonous yeasts from Comahue region (Argentinean North Patagonia). A set of screenable yeast phenotypic characteristics indicative of their potential usefulness in more aromatic red wine production was defined and tested in both, Saccharomyces and non-Saccharomyces populations. Twelve isolates showing six different glycosidase phenotypes were selected and they were characterized at species and strain levels using molecular methods. A close correlation between molecular and phenotypic characteristics was observed. Five strains belonging to Candida guilliermondii, C. pulcherrima and Kloeckera apiculata with highest constitutive beta-glucosidase activity levels without anthocyanase activity were discriminated. Some of them also showed constitutive beta-xylosidase and inductive alpha-rhamnosidase activities. The extension of the selection of oenological yeast to non-Saccharomyces species provided strains possessing novel and interesting oenological characteristics which could have significant implications in the production of more aromatic young red wine. As these non-Saccharomyces are indigenous to wine, they can be used in mixed starters at the beginning or as pure cultures at the end fermentation to contribute in enhancing the wine nuance that is typical of this specific area. 
9255982	19970701	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Isolation and characterization of kar2-404 mutation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We have devised a direct screening method to isolate mutations in the KAR2 gene, and have isolated a BiP/KAR2 mutant, kar2-404, from Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a small halo-forming mutant of secreted mouse alpha-amylase. The mutation site was identified as a point mutation at t1337 to c1337 resulting in the Ile-404Thr mutation of mature Kar2-404p, located at the most NH2-terminal first beta-sheet structure (beta 1) of the putative peptide-binding domain. This isoleucine is highly conserved in the Hsp70 family. By pulse-chase experiments, no obvious difference was detected in the intracellular secretion rate of MF alpha 1-prepro-signal-mouse-alpha-amylase between the wild type and the kar2-404 mutant. However, only about half the amount of secreted heterologous protein, mouse alpha-amylase, was detected in the mutant culture medium compared with wild type. A smaller amount of homologous protein, alpha-factor, was also detected and decreased faster in the mutant culture medium than in wild type. Kar2-404p was expressed about 3-fold more than wild type Kar2p, probably to cover its defective functions, and the turnover rates of Kar2p and Kar2-404p were about the same in vivo. The purified Kar2-404p was slightly more sensitive to chymotryptic digestion than Kar2p in vitro. 
23452049	20130305	Plant_Biol_(Stuttg)	D016428 D013485 	Properties of capsaicinoids for the control of fungi and oomycetes pathogenic to pepper.	Capsaicinoids are pungent compounds found in pepper (Capsicum spp.) fruits. Capsaicin showed antimicrobial activity in plate assays against seven isolates of five species of fungi and nine isolates of two species of oomycetes. The general trend was that oomycetes were more inhibited than fungi. Assays of capsaicin biosynthetic precursors suggest that the lateral chain of capsaicinoids has more inhibitory activity than the phenolic part. In planta tests of capsaicinoids (capsaicin and N-vanillylnonanamide) applied to the roots demonstrated that these compounds conferred protection against the pathogenic fungus Verticillium dahliae and induced both chitinase activity and expression of several defence-related genes, such as CASC1, CACHI2 and CABGLU. N-Vanillylnonanamide infiltrated into cotyledons confers systemic protection to the upper leaves of pepper against the fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea. In wild-type tomato plants such cotyledon infiltration has no protective effect, but is effective in the Never-ripe tomato mutant impaired in ethylene response. A similar effect was observed in tomato after salicylic acid infiltration.  
10347017	19990529	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Overexpression of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae mannosylphosphodolichol synthase-encoding gene in Trichoderma reesei results in an increased level of protein secretion and abnormal cell ultrastructure.	Production of extracellular proteins plays an important role in the physiology of Trichoderma reesei and has potential industrial application. To improve the efficiency of protein secretion, we overexpressed in T. reesei the DPM1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, encoding mannosylphosphodolichol (MPD) synthase, under homologous, constitutively acting expression signals. Four stable transformants, each with different copy numbers of tandemly integrated DPM1, exhibited roughly double the activity of MPD synthase in the respective endoplasmic reticulum membrane fraction. On a dry-weight basis, they secreted up to sevenfold-higher concentrations of extracellular proteins during growth on lactose, a carbon source promoting formation of cellulases. Northern blot analysis showed that the relative level of the transcript of cbh1, which encodes the major cellulase (cellobiohydrolase I [CBH I]), did not increase in the transformants. On the other hand, the amount of secreted CBH I and, in all but one of the transformants, intracellular CBH I was elevated. Our results suggest that posttranscriptional processes are responsible for the increase in CBH I production. The carbohydrate contents of the extracellular proteins were comparable in the wild type and in the transformants, and no hyperglycosylation was detected. Electron microscopy of the DPM1-amplified strains revealed amorphous structure of the cell wall and over three times as many mitochondria as in the control. Our data indicate that molecular manipulation of glycan biosynthesis in Trichoderma can result in improved protein secretion. 
9177030	19970401	Plant_Cell_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Identification of chitinase and osmotin-like protein as actin-binding proteins in suspension-cultured potato cells.	Cytoplasmic aggregation is an early resistance-associated event that is observed in potato tissues either after penetration of an incompatible race of Phytophthora infestans, the potato late blight fungus, or after treatment with hyphal wall components (HWC) prepared from P. infestans. In potato cells in suspension culture, the number of cells with cytoplasmic aggregation increased upon treatment with HWC, but such an increase was suppressed by treatment with cytochalasin D prior to treatment with HWC. This result suggested that cytoplasmic aggregation in cultured potato cells might be connected with the association of actin filaments. To identify the molecular basis of cytoplasmic aggregation, we purified actin and actin-related proteins by affinity chromatography on a column of immobilized DNase I from cultured potato cells and isolated proteins of 43 kDa, 32 kDa and 22 kDa. Analysis of the amino-terminal amino acid sequences indicated that the 43 kDa, 32 kDa and 22 kDa proteins were potato actin, basic chitinase and osmotin-like protein, respectively. This conclusion was supported by the results of Western blotting analysis of the 43 kDa and 32 kDa proteins with antibodies against actin and basic chitinase. Binding analysis with actin coupled to actin-specific antibodies and biotinylated actin suggested that the 32 kDa and 22 kDa proteins had actin-binding activity. In addition, examination of biomolecular interactions using an optical biosensor confirmed the binding of chitinase to actin. These results imply the possibility that basic chitinase and osmotin-like protein might be involved in cytoplasmic aggregation, hereby participating. In the potato cell's defense against attack by pathogen. 
24092451	20131005	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Endoglucanase and total cellulase from newly isolated Rhizopus oryzae and Trichoderma reesei: production, characterization, and thermal stability.	A multienzymatic complex production was evaluated, as well as endoglucanase and total cellulase characterization, during solid-state fermentation of rice industry wastes with Rhizopus oryzae CCT 7560 (newly isolated microorganism) and Trichoderma reesei QM 9414 (control). R. oryzae produced enzymes with higher activity at 15 h of fermentation (5.1 and 2.3 U g(-1) to endoglucanase and total cellulase), while T. reesei produced them at 55 h (15.3 and 2.8 U g(-1) to endoglucanase and total cellulase). The optimum temperature for total cellulase and endoglucanase was 60 °C. For Trichoderma and Rhizopus, the optimum pH was 5.0 and 6.0 for total cellulase and 6.0 and 5.0 for endoglucanase, respectively. The enzymes produced by Rhizopus presented higher stability at the temperature range evaluated (25-100 °C); the endoglucanase KM value was 20 times lower than the one found for Trichoderma. The characterization of the cellulolytic enzymes from the fungal species native of rice husk revealed that they can be more efficient than the genetically modified enzymes when rice husk and rice bran are used as substrates. 
18482441	20080517	Respir._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Pulmonary cryptococcosis induces chitinase in the rat.	We previously demonstrated that chronic pulmonary infection with Cryptococcus neoformans results in enhanced allergic inflammation and airway hyperreactivity in a rat model. Because the cell wall of C. neoformans consists of chitin, and since acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase) has recently been implicated as a novel mediator of asthma, we sought to determine whether such infection induces chitinase activity and expression of AMCase in the rat. We utilized a previously-established model of chronic C. neoformans pulmonary infection in the rat to analyze the activity, expression and localization of AMCase. Our studies indicate that intratracheal inoculation of C. neoformans induces chitinase activity within the lung and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of infected rats. Chitinase activity is also elicited by pulmonary infection with other fungi (e.g. C. albicans), but not by the inoculation of dead organisms. Enhanced chitinase activity reflects increased AMCase expression by airway epithelial cells and alveolar macrophages. Systemic cryptococcosis is not associated with increased pulmonary chitinase activity or AMCase expression. Our findings indicate a possible link between respiratory fungal infections, including C. neoformans, and asthma through the induction of AMCase. 
20812132	20100903	Nat._Prod._Res.	D016428 	Alpha-amylase production by toxigenic fungi.	This study is concerned with the screening of Alternaria alternata (Fr.) Keissler and Alternaria tenuissima (Kunze ex Pers.) Wilts strains for the biosynthesis of alpha-amylases. Nine strains of A. alternata and three strains of A. tenuissima were grown on enzyme production medium (EPM) and potato dextrose agar (PDA) using three pH levels (4.5-6.5); then the selected strains, able to produce bigger zones of starch hydrolysis on solid media, were subjected the testing of their amylolytic efficacy in liquid medium. In primary screening, the amylolytic activity of all the strains was tolerant to a wide range of initial culture pH values (4.5-6.5). Of all the cultures tested, A. alternata strains FCBP-100 and FCBP-385, and A. tenuissima strains FCBP-183 and FCBP-252 exhibited the maximum potential in terms of starch hydrolysis at pH 4.5 on EPM, and hence were selected for further studies. In secondary screening, the optimum pH of fermentation medium was adjusted to 4.5 using 0.05 M citrate buffer for the estimation of amylolytic enzyme activities. At 48 h incubation, the maximum alpha-amylase activity (31.8 units mL(-1)) was discerned by A. tenuissima strain FCBP-252. 
8767002	19960301	Mycoses	D016428 	Fungicidal activity of latex sap from Carica papaya and antifungal effect of D(+)-glucosamine on Candida albicans growth.	Carica papaya latex sap inhibits the growth of Candida albicans when added to a culture during the exponential growth phase. Approximately 60% was achieved. This fungistatic effect is the result of cell wall degradation due to a lack of polysaccharidic constituents in the outermost layers of the fungal cell wall and release of cell debris into the culture medium. When C. albicans was cultured on medium supplemented with D(+)-glucosamine, an inhibitor of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, growth was inhibited (34%) in a similar manner. Addition of D(+)-glucosamine during the exponential growth phase also had a fungistatic effect (26%). The modes of action of C. papaya latex and of D(+)-glucosamine in cell wall breakdown are discussed. 
23410930	20130216	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Direct cellobiose production from cellulose using sextuple beta-glucosidase gene deletion Neurospora crassa mutants.	Direct cellobiose production from cellulose by a genetically modified fungus-Neurospora crassa, was explored in this study. A library of N. crassa sextuple beta-glucosidase (bgl) gene deletion strains was constructed. Various concentrations of cellobiose were detected in the culture broth of the N. crassa sextuple beta-glucosidase (bgl) gene deletion strains when grown on Avicel without exogenous cellulase addition. The sextuple bgl deletion strains expressing one of the three basally transcribed bgl genes are the best cellobiose producers. For most sextuple strains, the multiple bgl gene deletion has no negative effect on the production of other cellulases. The induction of major endoglucanases and exoglucanases on Avicel in most of the sextuple bgl deletions strains was as fast as or faster than that of the wild type, except for strain F4. The best cellobiose producing strain, F5, produced 7.7 g/L of cellobiose from 20 g/L of Avicel in four days and utilized the Avicel as fast as did the wild type (even in the presence of high cellobiose concentration). The cellobiose yield from cellulose was about 48.3%. 
11082184	20001118	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	A modular esterase from Penicillium funiculosum which releases ferulic acid from plant cell walls and binds crystalline cellulose contains a carbohydrate binding module.	An esterase was isolated from cultures of the filamentous fungus Penicillium funiculosum grown on sugar beet pulp as the sole carbon source. The enzyme (ferulic acid esterase B, FAEB) was shown to be a cinnamoyl esterase (CE), efficiently releasing hydroxycinnamic acids from synthetic ester substrates and plant cell walls, and bound strongly to microcrystalline cellulose. A gene fragment was obtained by PCR using partial amino-acid sequences obtained from the pure enzyme and used to a probe a P. funiculosum genomic DNA library. A clone containing a 1120-bp ORF, faeB, was obtained which encoded a putative 353-residue preprotein including an 18-residue signal peptide, which when expressed in Eschericia coli produced CE activity. Northern analysis showed that transcription of faeB was tightly regulated, being stimulated by growth of the fungus on sugar beet pulp but inhibited by free glucose. The faeB promoter sequence contains putative motifs for binding an activator protein, XLNR, and a carbon catabolite repressor protein, CREA. FAEB was comprised of two distinct domains separated by a 20 residue Thr/Ser/Pro linker region. The N-terminal domain comprised 276 amino acids, contained a G-X-S-X-G motif typical of serine esterases, and was shown to be a member of a family comprising serine esterases, including microbial acetyl xylan esterases, poly (3-hydroxyalkanoate) depolymerases and CEs, and proteins of unknown function from Mycobacterium spp. and plants. The C-terminal domain comprised 39 amino acids and closely resembled the family 1 cellulose binding carbohydrate-binding modules (CBM) of fungal glycosyl hydrolases. This is the first report of a fungal CE with a CBM. 
1608450	19920611	Nature	D016428 D013485 D013487 	SWI6 protein is required for transcription of the periodically expressed DNA synthesis genes in budding yeast.	In budding yeast many genes are expressed under cell-cycle control in late G1. These include a large group of DNA synthesis genes, the HO gene involved in mating-type switching, CTS1 (chitinase) and also CLN1 and CLN2 (ref. 4) encoding G1 cyclins. Two factors, encoded by the SWI4 and SWI6 genes, are required for HO (ref. 5), CLN (refs 6, 7) and CTS1 (ref. 3) gene expression and, at least in the HO promoter, bind to CACGA4 upstream sequences (CCBs). This motif is not found upstream of the DNA synthesis genes, which instead have a hexamer element, ACGCGT1 (MCB), an MluI restriction site, that is recognized by a cell-cycle regulated transcription complex DSC1 (ref. 1). This MluI-activation system consisting of the MCBs and DSC1 is conserved in fission yeast where a DSC1-like complex controls the cdc22+ ribonucleotide reductase gene. The Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc10+ gene encodes a component of DSC1 (ref. 10) and, significantly, this has homology with both the Swi4 and Swi6 proteins. Here we show that Swi6 is an essential component of DSC1 and that deletion of SWI6 impairs the cell-cycle regulation of the DNA synthesis genes, as well as CLN1 and CLN2. Thus Swi6 is the common factor in regulation of all the above genes and may therefore be responsible for the timing of their expression in late G1. 
1826090	19910326	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	A major proportion of N-glycoproteins are transiently glucosylated in the endoplasmic reticulum.	N-linked, high-mannose-type oligosaccharides lacking glucose residues may be transiently glucosylated directly from UDP-Glc in the endoplasmic reticulum of mammalian, plant, fungal, and protozoan cells. The products formed have been identified as N-linked Glc1Man5-9GlcNAc2 and glucosidase II is apparently the enzyme responsible for the in vivo deglucosylation of the compounds. As newly glucosylated glycoproteins are immediately deglucosylated, it is unknown whether transient glucosylation involves all or nearly all N-linked glycoproteins or if, on the contrary, it only affects a minor proportion of them. In order to evaluate the molar proportion of N-linked oligosaccharides that are glucosylated, cells of the trypanosomatid protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi (a parasite transferring Man9GlcNAc2 in protein N-glycosylation) were grown in the presence of [14C]glucose and concentrations of the glucosidase II inhibitors deoxynojirimycin and castanospermine that were more than 1000-fold higher than those required to produce a 50% inhibition of the T. cruzi enzyme. About 52-53% total N-linked oligosaccharides appeared to have glucose residues. The compounds were identified as Glc1Man7-9GlcNAc2. The same percentage was obtained when cells were pulsed-chased with [14C]glucose in the presence of deoxynojirimycin for 60 min. No evidence for the presence of an endomannosidase yielding GlcMan from the glycosylated compounds was obtained. As the average number of N-linked oligosaccharides per molecule in glycoproteins is higher than one, these results indicate that more than 52-53% of total glycoproteins are glucosylated and that transient glucosylation is a major event in the normal processing of glycoproteins. 
23078400	20121020	Exp._Dermatol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 D016454 	Alternative approaches to antifungal therapies.	The expansive use of immunosuppressive medications in fields such as transplantational medicine and oncology, the higher frequency of invasive procedures in an ageing population and the HIV/AIDS pandemic have increased the frequency of systemic fungal infections. At the same time, increased resistance of pathogenic fungi to classical antifungal agents has led to sustained research efforts targeting alternative antifungal strategies. In this review, we focus on two promising approaches: cationic peptides and the targeting of fungal virulence factors. Cationic peptides are small, predominantly positively charged protein fragments that exert direct and indirect antifungal activities, one mechanism of action being the permeabilization of the fungal membrane. They include lysozyme, defensins and cathelicidins as well as novel synthetic peptides. Among fungal virulence factors, the targeting of candidal secreted aspartic proteinases seems to be a particularly promising approach. 
17827332	20070911	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Application of DNA bar codes for screening of industrially important fungi: the haplotype of Trichoderma harzianum sensu stricto indicates superior chitinase formation.	Selection of suitable strains for biotechnological purposes is frequently a random process supported by high-throughput methods. Using chitinase production by Hypocrea lixii/Trichoderma harzianum as a model, we tested whether fungal strains with superior enzyme formation may be diagnosed by DNA bar codes. We analyzed sequences of two phylogenetic marker loci, internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) and ITS2 of the rRNA-encoding gene cluster and the large intron of the elongation factor 1-alpha gene, tef1, from 50 isolates of H. lixii/T. harzianum, which were also tested to determine their ability to produce chitinases in solid-state fermentation (SSF). Statistically supported superior chitinase production was obtained for strains carrying one of the observed ITS1 and ITS2 and tef1 alleles corresponding to an allele of T. harzianum type strain CBS 226.95. A tef1-based DNA bar code tool, TrichoCHIT, for rapid identification of these strains was developed. The geographic origin of the strains was irrelevant for chitinase production. The improved chitinase production by strains containing this haplotype was not due to better growth on N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosamine or glucosamine. Isoenzyme electrophoresis showed that neither the isoenzyme profile of N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidases or the endochitinases nor the intensity of staining of individual chitinase bands correlated with total chitinase in the culture filtrate. The superior chitinase producers did not exhibit similarly increased cellulase formation. Biolog Phenotype MicroArray analysis identified lack of N-acetyl-beta-D-mannosamine utilization as a specific trait of strains with the chitinase-overproducing haplotype. This observation was used to develop a plate screening assay for rapid microbiological identification of the strains. The data illustrate that desired industrial properties may be an attribute of certain populations within a species, and screening procedures should thus include a balanced mixture of all genotypes of a given species. 
9421900	19980109	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	A neutral trehalase gene from Candida albicans: molecular cloning, characterization and disruption.	A neutral trehalase gene, NTC1, from the human pathogenic yeast Candida albicans was isolated and characterized. An ORF of 2724 bp was identified encoding a predicted protein of 907 amino acids and a molecular mass of 104 kDa. A single transcript of approximately 3.2 kb was detected by Northern blot analysis. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence of the C. albicans NTC1 gene product with that of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae NTH1 gene product revealed 57% identity. The NTC1 gene was localized on chromosome 1 or R. A null mutant (delta ntc1/delta ntc1) was constructed by sequential gene disruption. Extracts from mutants homozygous for neutral trehalase deletion had only marginal neutral trehalase activity. Extracts from heterozygous mutants showed intermediate activities between extracts from the wild-type strain and from the homozygous mutants. The null mutant showed no significant differences in pathogenicity as compared to the wild-type strain in a mouse model of systemic candidiasis. This result indicates that the neutral trehalase of C. albicans is not a potential target for antifungal drugs. 
15567274	20041130	Res._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Extracellular enzymes serving as virulence factors in nematophagous fungi involved in infection of the host.	Extracellular enzymes, including serine protease, chitinase and collagenase, corresponding to the main chemical constituents of the nematode cuticle and eggshell, have been reported to be involved in the infectious process as virulence factors. This review will focus on the categories, characterization, purification, cloning and potential function of these virulence enzymes and will attempt to provide new insights into the mechanisms of fungal pathogenesis in nematodes. 
12765025	20030527	BioTechniques	D023362 D013485 D016427 	Real-time quantitative RT-PCR assay of gene expression in plant roots during fungal pathogenesis.	Real-time quantitative RT-PCR is becoming the preferred method for high-sensitivity, rapid-throughput RNA transcript quantification. However, due to the significant developmental costs of dedicated fluorogenic probes, a real-time assay that is simple to establish, comparatively inexpensive, and readily adaptable would be advantageous for the detailed analysis of large sets of expressed sequences. We have devised a flexible real-time quantitative RT-PCR assay that employs a nonspecific DNA binding dye for product detection and uses a relative quantification formula to account for differences in PCR amplification efficiency between the target and reference products. The latter permits the use of an exogenous reference transcript and therefore avoids the normal requirement for the construction of a recombinant RNA reference transcript or extensive characterization of housekeeping gene expression. In an investigation of class II chitinase expression in two varieties of Bermuda grass (Cynodon spp.), following infection with the fungal root pathogen Ophiosphaerella narmari, this assay identified 16- and 28-fold peaks in gene expression at 24 and 96 h after inoculation, respectively. 
16134120	20050901	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of GPI14/YJR013w mutation that induces the cell wall integrity signalling pathway and results in increased protein production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	We report here identification and characterization of a mutation in the GPI14 gene, the yeast homologue of the mammalian PIG-M that functions in the synthesis of the GPI moiety anchoring proteins to the plasma membrane. We show that the first putative transmembrane domain of Gpi14p is not essential for its function. Downregulation of GPI14 expression/reduced protein function due to an amino terminal deletion resulted in increased transcription and production of an endogenous and a heterologous secreted protein expressed from HSP150 and ADH1 promoter, respectively. In these cells, unfolded protein response was induced but was not responsible for the enhanced production of these proteins. A cell wall defect in the gpi14 mutant cells was suggested by cell aggregation phenotype, increased sensitivity to Calcofluor white, an increased release of Gas1p and total protein into the culture medium. In the gpi14 mutant cells, transcription of RLM1, a transcription factor participating in the cell wall integrity signalling pathway, was increased, and deletion of RLM1 resulted in a synthetic lethal phenotype with the gpi14 mutation. These results suggest that partial inactivation of Gpi14p causes defects in the cell wall structure and suggest that compromised GPI anchor synthesis results in enhanced protein production via the cell wall integrity signalling pathway. 
11929211	20020404	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Role in pathogenesis of two endo-beta-1,4-xylanase genes from the vascular wilt fungus Fusarium oxysporum.	A gene, xyl4, whose predicted amino acid sequence shows significant homology with family 11 xylanases, was identified from the tomato vascular wilt fungus Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici. Expression of xyl4 is induced on oat spelt xylan as the carbon source, subject to carbon catabolite repression and preferentially expressed at alkaline ambient pH. Transcript levels of xyl4 on an inducing carbon source are differentially regulated by the nature and concentration of the nitrogen source. As shown by RT-PCR, xyl4 is expressed by F. oxysporum during the entire cycle of infection on tomato plants. Targeted inactivation of xyl4 and of xyl3, a previously identified gene of F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici encoding a family 10 xylanase, had no detectable effect on virulence on tomato plants, demonstrating that both genes are not essential for pathogenicity. 
15582611	20041208	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Kinetics of substrate transglycosylation by glycoside hydrolase family 3 glucan (1-->3)-beta-glucosidase from the white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	To elucidate the interaction between substrate inhibition and substrate transglycosylation of retaining glycoside hydrolases (GHs), a steady-state kinetic study was performed for the GH family 3 glucan (1-->3)-beta-glucosidase from the white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium, using laminarioligosaccharides as substrates. When laminaribiose was incubated with the enzyme, a transglycosylation product was detected by thin-layer chromatography. The product was purified by size-exclusion chromatography, and was identified as a 6-O-glucosyl-laminaribiose (beta-D-Glcp-(1-->6)-beta-D-Glcp-(1-->3)-D-Glc) by 1H NMR spectroscopy and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry analysis. In steady-state kinetic studies, an apparent decrease of laminaribiose hydrolysis was observed at high concentrations of the substrate, and the plots of glucose production versus substrate concentration were thus fitted to a modified Michaelis-Menten equation including hydrolytic and transglycosylation parameters (K(m), K(m2), k(cat), k(cat2)). The rate of 6-O-glucosyl-laminaribiose production estimated by high-performance anion-exchange chromatography coincided with the theoretical rate calculated using these parameters, clearly indicating that substrate inhibition of this enzyme is fully explained by substrate transglycosylation. Moreover, when K(m), k(cat), and affinity for glucosyl-enzyme intermediates (K(m2)) were estimated for laminarioligosaccharides (DP=3-5), the K(m) value of laminaribiose was approximately 5-9 times higher than those of the other oligosaccharides (DP=3-5), whereas the K(m2) values were independent of the DP of the substrates. The kinetics of transglycosylation by the enzyme could be well interpreted in terms of the subsite affinities estimated from the hydrolytic parameters (K(m) and k(cat)), and a possible mechanism of transglycosylation is proposed. 
14871663	20040212	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D003160 D016428 D013486 D016454 	Proteinaceous inhibitors of endo-beta-glucanases.	Both plants and filamentous phytopathogens secrete proteins that inhibit endo-beta-glucanases. The first endo-beta-glucanase inhibitor proteins to be discovered are XEGIP, a tomato protein that inhibits fungal xyloglucan-specific endo-beta-1,4-glucanases, and GIP1, an oomycete protein that inhibits endo-beta-1,3-glucanases produced by the plant host. These inhibitor proteins act by forming high-affinity complexes with their endoglucanase ligands. A family of XEGIP-like proteins has been identified. At least one member of this family (extracellular dermal glycoprotein, EDGP) has been shown to have endoglucanase-inhibitor activity, while other members have sequence similarity to a xylanase inhibitor from wheat (TAXI-1). The oomycete inhibitor GIP1 is a catalytically inactive serine protease homolog (SPH) whose structure is unrelated to XEGIP. Both types of inhibitor proteins are likely to affect the interactions of plants with filamentous phytopathogens, and a basic model describing their roles in pathogenesis is proposed. 
1910330	19910901	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of an endoxylanase from Trichoderma koningii G-39.	Trichoderma koningii G-39 produced xylanases in submerged culture using oat spelt xylan or crystalline cellulose, Avicel, as the sole carbon source. A low-Mr xylanase was purified from the culture filtrate by ion-exchange chromatography on SP-Trisacryl-M and gel filtration on Fractogel TSK HW-50F. It was homogeneous on SDS/PAGE and isoelectric focusing. A typical procedure provided about 11-fold purification with 4.5% protein yield and 50% activity recovery. The purified enzyme has an Mr value of about 21,500 and a pI of 8.9. Its specific activity was 6100 units/mg of protein, with optimal activity towards 0.5% xylan at about pH 5.5 and 60 degrees C. The purified enzyme had no activity against CM-cellulose with a degree of substitution of 0.63. It also showed no beta-xylosidase activity. The Km and Vmax. values, as determined with the soluble fraction of oat spelt xylan as substrate, were 0.70 mg/ml and 1.85 x 10(6) mumol/min per mg of enzyme respectively. Hg2+ (1 mM) and SDS (10 mM) completely inhibited xylanase activity, whereas Ca2+ showed no significant effect on the enzyme activity at 1 mM, but gave 80% inhibition at 10 mM. The enzyme contained about 4.4% carbohydrate and showed an immunological relationship to a cellobiohydrolase from the same fungal strain. 
16667522	19900601	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	Molecular Cloning and Ethylene Induction of mRNA Encoding a Phytoalexin Elicitor-Releasing Factor, beta-1,3-Endoglucanase, in Soybean.	Soybean (Glycine max) beta-1,3-endoglucanase (EC 3.2. 1.39) is involved in one of the earliest plant-pathogen interactions that may lead to active disease resistance by releasing elicitor-active carbohydrates from the cell walls of fungal pathogens. Ethylene induced beta-1,3-endoglucanase activity to 2- to 3-fold higher levels in cotyledons of soybean seedlings. A specific polyclonal antiserum raised against purified soybean beta-1,3-endoglucanase was used to immunoprecipitate in vitro translation products, demonstrating that ethylene induction increased translatable beta-1,3-endoglucanase mRNA. Several cDNA clones for the endoglucanase gene were obtained by antibody screening of a lambda-gt11 expression library prepared from soybean cotyledons. Hybrid-select translation experiments indicated that the cloned cDNA encoded a 36-kilodalton precursor protein product that was specifically immunoprecipitated with beta-1,3-endoglucanase antiserum. Escherichia coli cells expressing the cloned cDNA also synthesized an immunologically positive protein. Nucleotide sequence of three independent clones revealed a single uninterrupted open reading frame of 1041 nucleotides, corresponding to a polypeptide of 347 residue long. The primary amino acid sequence of beta-1,3-endoglucanase as deduced from the nucleotide sequence was confirmed by direct amino acid sequencing of trypsin digests of the glucanase. The soybean beta-1,3-endoglucanase exhibited 53% amino acid homology to a beta-1,3-glucanase cloned from cultured tobacco cells and 48% homology to a beta-(1,3-1,4)-glucanase from barley. Utilizing the largest cloned cDNA (pEG488) as a hybridization probe, it was found that the increase in translatable beta-1,3-endoglucanase mRNA seen upon ethylene treatment of soybean seedlings was due to 50- to 100-fold increase in steady state mRNA levels, indicating that ethylene regulates gene expression of this enzyme important in disease resistance at the level of gene transcription. 
12467451	20021207	Biotechnol._Prog.	D016428 D013485 	Secretion of cellobiase is mediated via vacuoles in Termitomyces clypeatus.	The majority of cellobiase activity in Termitomyces clypeatus was localized in vacuolar fractions of the fungus under secretory and nonsecretory conditions of growth. Activities of marker proteins for subcellular organelles, e.g., vacuoles, cytosol, ER, and mitochondria, in mycelial extracts from the secreting conditions increased by approximately 20, 12, 5, and 2.5 times, respectively, as compared to those obtained from mycelium grown in nonsecreting conditions. The average size and concentration of vacuoles visualized by electron microscopy were also increased in secreting conditions in the fungus. The specific activity of cellobiase in vacuoles isolated in Ficoll-sucrose gradient, as obtained from mycelial growth in secretory medium, was more than 40 times higher in comparison to that found from nonsecretory medium. The results indicated that subcellular localization of cellobiase in vacuoles is regulated by the cellular signaling prevailing in the fungus. Mycelial extraction of intracellular proteins by hand grinding and by bead-beater from cells frozen in the presence or absence of liquid nitrogen was also compared. Maximum recovery of intracellular protein was obtained with the bead-beater under aerobic conditions in the absence of nitrogen. Highest recovery of vacuoles up to 85% was obtained by single-step ultracentrifugation of the mycelial extract of the fungus in Ficoll-sucrose gradient. The method appeared to be useful for separation of other subcellular organelles in filamentous fungi. 
6331333	19840501	Arch._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Cyclic-AMP content and trehalase activation in vegetative cells and ascospores of yeast.	Addition of glucose to yeast ascospores, glucose-grown vegetative cells from the stationary growth-phase or acetate-grown vegetative cells from the logarithmic growth-phase induces a rapid tenfold increase in the activity of trehalase. Trehalase activation is followed by a period of slow inactivation. It was possible to reverse the inactivation in the presence of glucose in all cell types immediately and completely by subsequent addition of a nitrogen source. This reactivation by nitrogen sources is in disagreement with proteolytic breakdown being responsible for trehalase inactivation in the presence of glucose. The addition of glucose induced in all cell types a rapid transient increase of the cellular cyclic-AMP content. In ascospores the increase of the cyclic-AMP level was about twofold, in glucose-grown stationary-phase vegetative cells four- to fivefold and in acetate-grown vegetative cells about sevenfold. Subsequent addition in the presence of glucose of a nitrogen source caused a new twofold increase of the cyclic-AMP level in ascospores. In the other two cell types however addition of a nitrogen source after the initial transient increase of the cyclic-AMP level did not produce a significant new increase. Although the data obtained for ascospores at first seemed to confirm the crucial role of the increase in the cyclic-AMP level for the activation of trehalase, the data obtained afterwards for vegetative cells indicated that it is possible to activate trehalase in yeast without a concomitant increase of the total cellular cyclic-AMP content. 
18480250	20080516	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	Lack of aldose 1-epimerase in Hypocrea jecorina (anamorph Trichoderma reesei): a key to cellulase gene expression on lactose.	The heterodisaccharide lactose (1,4-O-beta-D-galactopyranosyl-D-glucose) induces cellulase formation in the ascomycete Hypocrea jecorina (= Trichoderma reesei). Lactose assimilation is slow, and the assimilation of its beta-D-galactose moiety depends mainly on the operation of a recently described reductive pathway and depends less on the Leloir pathway, which accepts only alpha-D-galactose. We therefore reasoned whether galactomutarotase [aldose 1-epimerase (AEP)] activity might limit lactose assimilation and thus influence cellulase formation. We identified three putative AEP-encoding genes (aep1, aep2, aep3) in H. jecorina, of which two encoded intracellular protein (AEP1 and AEP2) and one encoded an extracellular protein (AEP3). Although all three were transcribed, only the aep3 transcript was detected on lactose. However, no mutarotase activity was detected in the mycelia, their cell walls, or the extracellular medium during growth on lactose. Therefore, the effect of galactomutarotase activity on lactose assimilation was studied with H. jecorina strains expressing the C-terminal galactose mutarotase part of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Gal10. These strains showed increased growth on lactose in a gene copy number-dependent manner, although their formation of extracellular beta-galactosidase activity and transcription of the genes encoding the first steps in the Leloir and the reductive pathway was similar to the parental strain QM9414. Cellulase gene transcription on lactose dramatically decreased in these strains, but remained unaffected during growth on cellulose. Our data show that cellulase induction in H. jecorina by lactose requires the beta-anomer of D-galactose and reveal the lack of mutarotase activity during growth on lactose as an important key for cellulase formation on this sugar. 
22833403	20120727	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Directed evolution of Penicillium janczewskii zalesk α-galactosidase toward enhanced activity and expression in Pichia pastoris.	In this study, the activity of an α-galactosidase obtained from Penicillium janczewskii zalesk was improved via modifying its gene by error-prone PCR and DNA shuffling. The mutated DNA was ligated to pBGP1, an autonomous-replicating vector, which was subsequently transformed into Pichia pastoris X-33. The expressed enzyme activities were measured after single colonies were cultured in yeast-peptone-dextrose medium in deep-well plates. After two rounds of screening, two mutants with higher activity were obtained. By PCR analysis, four mutation sites (S167G, P455L, N637S, and P490L/P490H) were found in these two variants (mutant-59 and mutant-8). Mutant-59 showed the highest activity at pH 5.0 and 40 °C with an increased V(max) value of 769 μmol/min and the specific activity of 667 U/mg against p-nitrophenyl α-D-galactopyranoside. The two mutant enzymes also showed similar resistance to the metal ions of Cu(2+), Fe(2+), and Zn(2+). In a 10-L fermenter, the supernatant enzyme activity reached the maximum of 550.2 U/mL upon the methanol induction for 96 h. This fermentation activity of the mutant was improved approximately two more folds than the wild type α-galactosidase. This mutant of α-galactosidase is prospective in feed manufacturing as feed additives to improve nutrient digestibility in monogastric animals. 
17916112	20071006	Plant_J.	D016428 D013485 	Absence of the endo-beta-1,4-glucanases Cel1 and Cel2 reduces susceptibility to Botrytis cinerea in tomato.	Cel1 and Cel2 are members of the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum Mill) endo-beta-1,4-glucanase (EGase) family that may play a role in fruit ripening and organ abscission. This work demonstrates that Cel1 protein is present in other vegetative tissues and accumulates during leaf development. We recently reported the downregulation of both the Cel1 mRNA and protein upon fungal infection, suggesting the involvement of EGases in plant-pathogen interactions. This hypothesis was confirmed by assessing the resistance to Botrytis cinerea infection of transgenic plants expressing both genes in an antisense orientation (Anti-Cel1, Anti-Cel2 and Anti-Cel1-Cel2). The Anti-Cel1-Cel2 plants showed enhanced resistance to this fungal necrotroph. Microscopical analysis of infected leaves revealed that tomato plants accumulated pathogen-inducible callose within the expanding lesion. Anti-Cel1-Cel2 plants presented a faster and enhanced callose accumulation against B. cinerea than wild-type plants. The inhibitor 2-deoxy-d-glucose, a callose synthesis inhibitor, showed a direct relationship between faster callose accumulation and enhanced resistance to B. cinerea. EGase activity appears to negatively modulate callose deposition. The absence of both EGase genes was associated with changes in the expression of the pathogen-related genes PR1 and LoxD. Interestingly, Anti-Cel1-Cel2 plants were more susceptible to Pseudomonas syringae, displaying severe disease symptoms and enhanced bacterial growth relative to wild-type plants. Analysis of the involvement of Cel1 and Cel2 in the susceptibility to B. cinerea in fruits was done with the ripening-impaired mutants Never ripe (Nr) and Ripening inhibitor (rin). The data reported in this work support the idea that enzymes involved in cell wall metabolism play a role in susceptibility to pathogens. 
12099523	20020709	Ann._Bot.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D016454 	Induced systemic resistance (ISR) against pathogens in the context of induced plant defences.	Induced systemic resistance (ISR) of plants against pathogens is a widespread phenomenon that has been intensively investigated with respect to the underlying signalling pathways as well as to its potential use in plant protection. Elicited by a local infection, plants respond with a salicylic-dependent signalling cascade that leads to the systemic expression of a broad spectrum and long-lasting disease resistance that is efficient against fungi, bacteria and viruses. Changes in cell wall composition, de novo production of pathogenesis-related-proteins such as chitinases and glucanases, and synthesis of phytoalexins are associated with resistance, although further defensive compounds are likely to exist but remain to be identified. In this Botanical Briefing we focus on interactions between ISR and induced resistance against herbivores that is mediated by jasmonic acid as a central signalling molecule. While many studies report cross-resistance, others have found trade-offs, i.e. inhibition of one resistance pathway by the other. Here we propose a framework that explains many of the thus far contradictory results. We regard elicitation separately from signalling and from production, i.e. the synthesis of defensive compounds. Interactions on all three levels can act independently from each other. 
7189672	19800401	Biokhimiia	D004740 D016428 	[Purification and properties of low molecular weight endoglucanase of the cellulase complex from Trichoderma koningii].	A homogenous low molecular weight 1,4-beta-glucan glucanohydrolase (endoglucanase) has been isolated from a crude commercial preparation of cellokoningine P10X of T. koningii origin. The molecular weight of the enzyme as determined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis is 13 000. The endoglucanase was obtained as a lyophylized preparation free of the cellobiase activity. It was shown that cellobiose or methylcellobioside activate the effect of the low molecular weight endoglucanase (measured by the viscometric technique with respect to CMC hydrolysis) and at the same time almost completely suppress the activity of high molecular weight endoglucanases from the sane source. A detailed kinetic study of the effects showed that the low molecular weight enzyme is activated by a transglycosylation mechanism, where cellobiose acts as an added nucleophile. The activation is 6-fold at saturating concentrations of cellobiose (Ks = 15 mM). It was shown that diverse kinetic behaviour of cellobiose which can act both as activatory and inhibitor for endoglucanases from different sources can be explained, firstly, by different ratios of low to high molecular weight endoglucanases in the cellulase complexes, and, secondly, by their ability to catalyze transglycosylation reactions, which, in turn, results in a transfer of reducing end groups of the reaction products onto cellobiose as an added nucleophile. 
19898784	20091110	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Screening and production study of microbial xylanase producers from Brazilian Cerrado.	Hemicelluloses are polysaccharides of low molecular weight containing 100 to 200 glycosidic residues. In plants, the xylans or the hemicelluloses are situated between the lignin and the collection of cellulose fibers underneath. The xylan is the most common hemicellulosic polysaccharide in cell walls of land plants, comprising a backbone of xylose residues linked by beta-1,4-glycosidic bonds. So, xylanolytic enzymes from microorganism have attracted a great deal of attention in the last decade, particularly because of their biotechnological characteristics in various industrial processes, related to food, feed, ethanol, pulp, and paper industries. A microbial screening of xylanase producer was carried out in Brazilian Cerrado area in Selviria city, Mato Grosso do Sul State, Brazil. About 50 bacterial strains and 15 fungal strains were isolated from soil sample at 35 degrees C. Between these isolated microorganisms, a bacterium Lysinibacillus sp. and a fungus Neosartorya spinosa as good xylanase producers were identified. Based on identification processes, Lysinibacillus sp. is a new species and the xylanase production by this bacterial genus was not reported yet. Similarly, it has not reported about xylanase production from N. spinosa. The bacterial strain P5B1 identified as Lysinibacillus sp. was cultivated on submerged fermentation using as substrate xylan, wheat bran, corn straw, corncob, and sugar cane bagasse. Corn straw and wheat bran show a good xylanase activity after 72 h of fermentation. A fungus identified as N. spinosa (strain P2D16) was cultivated on solid-state fermentation using as substrate source wheat bran, wheat bran plus sawdust, corn straw, corncob, cassava bran, and sugar cane bagasse. Wheat bran and corncobs show the better xylanase production after 72 h of fermentation. Both crude xylanases were characterized and a bacterial xylanase shows optimum pH for enzyme activity at 6.0, whereas a fungal xylanase has optimum pH at 5.0-5.5. They were stable in the pH range 5.0-10.0 and 5.5-8.5 for bacterial and fungal xylanase, respectively. The optimum temperatures were 55 and 60 degrees C for bacterial and fungal xylanase, respectively, and they were thermally stable up to 50 degrees C. 
11560933	20010919	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 	A novel carbohydrate-binding protein is a component of the plant cell wall-degrading complex of Piromyces equi.	The recycling of photosynthetically fixed carbon by the action of microbial plant cell wall hydrolases is a fundamental biological process that is integral to one of the major geochemical cycles and, in addition, has considerable industrial potential. Enzyme systems that attack the plant cell wall contain noncatalytic carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs) that mediate attachment to this composite structure and play a pivotal role in maximizing the hydrolytic process. Anaerobic fungi that colonize herbivores are the most efficient plant cell wall degraders known, and this activity is vested in a high molecular weight complex that binds tightly to the plant cell wall. To investigate whether plant cell wall attachment is mediated by noncatalytic proteins, a cDNA library of the anaerobic fungus Piromyces equi was screened for sequences that encode noncatalytic proteins that are components of the cellulase-hemicellulase complex. A 1.6-kilobase cDNA was isolated encoding a protein of 479 amino acids with a M(r) of 52548 designated NCP1. The mature protein had a modular architecture comprising three copies of the noncatalytic dockerin module that targets anaerobic fungal proteins to the cellulase-hemicellulase complex. The two C-terminal modules of NCP1, CBM29-1 and CBM29-2, respectively, exhibit 33% sequence identity with each other but have no homologues in protein data bases. A truncated form of NCP1 comprising CBM29-1 and CBM29-2 (CBM29-1-2) and each of the two individual copies of CBM29 bind primarily to mannan, cellulose, and glucomannan, displaying the highest affinity for the latter polysaccharide. CBM29-1-2 exhibits 4-45-fold higher affinity than either CBM29-1 or CBM29-2 for the various ligands, indicating that the two modules, when covalently linked, act in synergy to bind to an array of different polysaccharides. This paper provides the first report of a CBM-containing protein from an anaerobic fungal cellulase-hemicellulase complex. The two CBMs constitute a novel CBM family designated CBM29 whose members exhibit unusually wide ligand specificity. We propose, therefore, that NCP1 plays a role in sequestering the fungal enzyme complex onto the plant cell wall. 
11504924	20010816	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Molecular characterization of a mannoprotein with homology to chitin deacetylases that stimulates T cell responses to Cryptococcus neoformans.	The fungus Cryptococcus neoformans is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with impaired CD4(+) T cell function, particularly those with AIDS. To identify cryptococcal antigens that could serve as vaccine candidates by stimulating T cell responses, C. neoformans-reactive CD4(+) T cell hybridomas were generated by immunization of C57BL/6 mice and fusion of splenocytes with thymoma cells. The antigen that stimulated one of the hybridomas, designated P1D6, to produce IL-2 was purified to homogeneity by sequential anion exchange chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, and SDS/PAGE. Based on its apparent molecular mass of 98 kDa and mannosylation, the antigen of interest was named MP98. MP98 was N terminal-sequenced, and the gene encoding the protein was cloned and sequenced. Recombinant MP98, expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, stimulated P1D6 to produce IL-2. Analysis of the derived 458-aa sequence of MP98 reveals an N-terminal cleavable signal sequence, a polysaccharide deacetylase domain found in fungal chitin deacetylases, and a serine/threonine-rich C-terminal region. Overall, there were 103 serine/threonine residues serving as potential O-linked glycosylation sites as well as 12 possible N-linked glycosylation sites. Thus, a C. neoformans mannoprotein has been characterized that stimulates T cell responses and has molecular properties of a chitin deacetylase. 
1789004	19911101	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	The major exoglucanase from Candida albicans: a non-glycosylated secretory monomer related to its counterpart from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Exoglucanases secreted by two different strains from Candida albicans have been purified to homogeneity. The purified enzyme from each strain behaved as a non-glycosylated monomer (molecular weight 38,000) that was identical in terms of sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis comigration, amino acid analysis and amino terminal sequence. The amino acid composition was similar to that of the major exoglucanase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In addition, these two enzymes displayed a 50% homology in the first 35 amino acids of the amino terminus. Antibodies against the deglycosylated exoglucanase (treated with Endo H) from S. cerevisiae were reactive with the exoglucanase from C. albicans and vice versa. Immunoblotting proved to be a semiquantitative method to detect C. albicans antigen in culture fluids. The exoglucanase from C. albicans appears to enter the secretory pathway without undergoing N-glycosylation. 
2554967	19890905	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Determination of the three-dimensional solution structure of the C-terminal domain of cellobiohydrolase I from Trichoderma reesei. A study using nuclear magnetic resonance and hybrid distance geometry-dynamical simulated annealing.	The solution structure of a synthetic 36-residue polypeptide comprising the C-terminal cellulose binding domain of cellobiohydrolase I (CT-CBH I) from Trichoderma reesei was investigated by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. The 1H NMR spectrum was completely assigned in a sequential manner by two-dimensional NMR techniques. A large number of stereospecific assignments for beta-methylene protons, as well as ranges for the phi, psi, and chi 1 torsion angles, were obtained on the basis of sequential and intraresidue nuclear Overhauser enhancement (NOE) and coupling constant data in combination with a conformational data base search. The structure calculations were carried out in an iterative manner by using the hybrid distance geometry-dynamical simulated annealing method. This involved computing a series of initial structures from a subset of the experimental data in order to resolve ambiguities in the assignments of some NOE cross-peaks arising from chemical shift degeneracy. Additionally, this permitted us to extend the stereospecific assignments to the alpha-methylene protons of glycine using information on phi torsion angles derived from the initial structure calculations. The final experimental data set consisted of 554 interproton distance restraints, 24 restraints for 12 hydrogen bonds, and 33 phi, 24 psi, and 25 chi 1 torsion angle restraints. CT-CBH I has two disulfide bridges whose pairing was previously unknown. Analysis of structures calculated with all three possible combinations of disulfide bonds, as well as without disulfide bonds, indicated that the correct disulfide bridge pairing was 8-25 and 19-35. Forty-one structures were computed with the 8-25 and 19-35 disulfide bridges, and the average atomic rms difference between the individual structures and the mean structure obtained by averaging their coordinates was 0.33 +/- 0.04 A for the backbone atoms and 0.52 +/- 0.06 A for all atoms. The protein has a wedgelike shape with an amphiphilic character, one face being predominantly hydrophilic and the other mainly hydrophobic. The principal element of secondary structure is made up of an irregular triple-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet composed of residues 5-9 (beta 1), 24-28 (beta 2), and 33-36 (beta 3) in which strand beta 3 is hydrogen bonded to the other two strands.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 
11402645	20010614	Acta_Vet._Hung.	D016428 	Characterisation and effects of a xylanase enzyme preparation extracted from Thermomyces lanuginosus cultures.	This paper describes the production of an enzyme preparation from the fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus. Thermal resistance, pH stability and lignocellulolytic activity of the enzyme preparation high in xylanase were studied on a variety of grains and forages. The enzyme preparation preserved more than 70% of its original xylanase activity for 4 and 1 h at 60 and 70 degrees C, respectively. The xylanase activity remained over 80% when the preparation was incubated for 30 min at pH 4.5. In vitro digestibility studies indicated that the enzyme digested 7.5, 8.5 and 8.0% of the dry matter (DM) of barley meal, wheat bran and oat meal samples, respectively. When applying 60-min incubation, 7.5, 7.3 and 8.4% of DM of the oat straw, alfalfa hay and triticale straw was digested, respectively. When the time of digestion was increased to 360 min, the sunflower hull showed 15.8% DM digestibility. 
9472143	19980224	Rev._Argent._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 	[Simple method for determining cellulolytic activity in fungi].	Wild fungal strains isolated from litter and soil were inoculated in test tubes containing a synthetic medium with 0.5% sodium carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) as sole carbon source. After the incubation time, cylindrical probes were taken from each tube using a borer and stained with Congo red 0.1% to reveal the remaining CMC. The relative cellulase activity was estimated by measuring the deepness of the clearing zone, and the growth by the limit of mycelial penetration in the medium. The ratio: hydrolysis zone/depth of growth, provides additional information to compare strains. A test using culture supernatants of liquid media growing strains was developed for enzyme assay using a modification of the cylinder-plate method. Petri dishes were filled with agar-CMC medium and cups were cut off with a steel punch. Such cups were filled with culture supernatants. After incubation, the plated were stained with Congo red, and the diameter of each cleared zone was recorded. Comparative studies of strains could be performed as well as quantitation of enzyme activity using a standard cellulase solution and computing the area of the cleared zones. This method may be useful when a large number of strains must be tested for cellulolytic activity or when conventional tests fail for assaying enzymatic induction in vitro. 
8199326	19930101	Chin._J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Synthesis, cloning and sequencing of glucoamylase cDNA from Aspergillus niger mutant T21.	Poly(A)+ RNA was isolated from Aspergillus niger T21, a glucoamylase overproducing strain and was used as template to synthesize double stranded cDNA. A cDNA library was then constructed. The E. coli transformants were screened for the glucoamylase cDNA by in situ colony hybridization with P-labeled fragment of glucoamylase gene as probe. The positive rate was 1.6%. Restriction analysis proved that 32% of the positive clones carried the inserts of 2.1 kb of full length glucoamylase cDNA. Sequence of the glucoamylase cDNA was determined and the result showed that the sequence of glucoamylase gene of the mutant T21 was almost the same as that reported previously. The high rate of glucoamylase cDNA-containing clones in the cDNA library of strain T21 provided evidence of high steady state level of glucoamylase mRNA in mycelium of mutant T21. Most likely it is one of the major causes for the high glucoamylase productivity of mutant T21. 
19396235	20090428	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase enzyme production by the mycoparasite Clonostachys rosea f. catenulata against fungal plant pathogens.	Clonostachys rosea f. catenulata (syn. Gliocladium catenulatum) is an effective fungal biological agent against Fusarium root and stem rot and Pythium damping-off diseases on cucumber plants. Both chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase enzymes were produced when C. rosea was grown on a synthetic medium containing chitin or laminarin as a sole carbon source, respectively. Chitinase production was also induced by Fusarium cell walls, while beta-1,3-glucanase activity was induced by both Fusarium and Pythium cell walls, as well as by growth on homogenized cucumber roots and on low-carbon media. Mycelial growth of Fusarium and Pythium, when exposed to C. rosea culture filtrates that contain glucanase activity, was significantly reduced compared with the controls, and cell walls of both pathogens were degraded. On excised cucumber roots, hyphae of C. rosea formed appressorium-like structures and coiled around hyphae of Pythium. In culture, C. rosea caused localized degradation of Fusarium hyphae. Cucumber root tissues colonized by C. rosea showed higher levels of beta-1,3-glucanase activity at 7 days post-application compared with untreated controls. To determine if this activity was derived from C. rosea, glucanase isoforms were separated on activity gels. Fungal culture filtrates and root extracts contained the same predominant 20 kDa isoform. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using primers designed to amplify a beta-1,3-glucanase gene in C. rosea confirmed glucanase expression on roots. These results show that C. rosea produces beta-1,3-glucanase in situ, which can degrade hyphae of Fusarium and Pythium and contribute to biological control efficacy. 
11494102	20010809	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Purification and properties of the cell-associated beta-xylosidase from Aureobasidium.	beta-Xylosidase was extracted from Aureobasidium sp. ATCC 20524 and purified to homogeneity. The molecular mass was estimated at 411 kDa. The enzyme contained 15.3% (w/w) carbohydrate. The optimum pH and temperature were pH 3.5 and 80 degrees C, respectively. The enzyme was stable at pH 3.5-9 after 3 h and at 80 degrees C after 15 min. The Michaelis constant (K(m)) and maximum velocity (V(max)) toward p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xyloside were 2.0 mmol l(-1) and 0.94 mmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein, respectively. The enzyme was inhibited strongly by mercury, lead, and copper ions. 
6370959	19840401	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants provide evidence of hexokinase PII as a bifunctional enzyme with catalytic and regulatory domains for triggering carbon catabolite repression.	A selection system has been devised for isolating hexokinase PII structural gene mutants that cause defects in carbon catabolite repression, but retain normal catalytic activity. We used diploid parental strains with homozygotic defects in the hexokinase PI structural gene and with only one functional hexokinase PII allele. Of 3,000 colonies tested, 35 mutants (hex1r) did not repress the synthesis of invertase, maltase, malate dehydrogenase, and respiratory enzymes. These mutants had additional hexokinase PII activity. In contrast to hex1 mutants (Entian et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 156:99-105, 1977; F.K. Zimmermann and I. Scheel, Mol. Gen. Genet. 154:75-82, 1977), which were allelic to structural gene mutants of hexokinase PII and had no catalytic activity (K.-D. Entian, Mol. Gen. Gent. 178:633-637, 1980), the hex1r mutants sporulated hardly at all or formed aberrant cells. Those ascospores obtained were mostly inviable. As the few viable hex1r segregants were sterile, triploid cells were constructed to demonstrate allelism between hex1r mutants and hexokinase PII structural gene mutants. Metabolite concentrations, growth rate, and ethanol production were the same in hex1r mutants and their corresponding wild-type strains. Recombination of hexokinase and glucokinase alleles gave strains with different specific activities. The defect in carbon catabolite repression was strongly associated with the defect in hexokinase PII and was independent of the glucose phosphorylating capacity. Hence, a secondary effect caused by reduced hexose phosphorylation was not responsible for the repression defect in hex1 mutants. These results, and those with the hex1r mutants isolated, strongly supported our earlier hypothesis that hexokinase PII is a bifunctional enzyme with (i) catalytic activity and (ii) a regulatory component triggering carbon catabolite repression (Entian, Mol. Gen. Genet. 178:633-637, 1980; K.-D. Entian and D. Mecke, J. Biol. Chem. 257:870-874, 1982). 
16761182	20060609	Mycopathologia	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Review of fungal chitinases.	Chitin is the second most abundant organic and renewable source in nature, after cellulose. Chitinases are chitin-degrading enzymes. Chitinases have important biophysiological functions and immense potential applications. In recent years, researches on fungal chitinases have made fast progress, especially in molecular levels. Therefore, the present review will focus on recent advances of fungal chitinases, containing their nomenclature and assays, purification and characterization, molecular cloning and expression, family and structure, regulation, and function and application. 
9025297	19970101	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Expression of CEL2 and CEL4, two proteins from Agaricus bisporus with similarity to fungal cellobiohydrolase I and beta-mannanase, respectively, is regulated by the carbon source.	Two new cellulose-growth specific (cel) cDNAs, cel2 and cel4, have been isolated from an Agaricus bisporus cDNA expression library by immunoscreening with an A. bisporus anti-'endoglucanase' antibody. The deduced amino acid sequences showed that both CEL2 and CEL4 proteins have a modular structure consisting of a fungal-type cellulose-binding domain (CBD) and a catalytic domain separated by a linker region rich in Pro, Ser and Thr. The CEL2 and CEL4 catalytic domains were homologous to fungal cellobiohydrolases (CBH) in family 7 and to fungal mannanases in family 5 of the glycosyl hydrolases, respectively. A previously isolated cDNA derived from a constitutive gene was also sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence corresponded to 5-aminolaevulinic acid synthase (ALA), the first enzyme in the haem biosynthetic pathway, and was most similar to other fungal ALAs. RNA analysis showed that the expression of cel2 and cel4 genes was induced by cellulose and repressed by glucose, fructose and lactose. The soluble cellulose derivative CM-cellulose induced mRNA accumulation for cel1 but not cel2, cel3 or cel4. Mannitol, maltose, sorbitol and glycerol decreased cel2 and cel4 mRNA levels to different extents. cel1, cel2, cel3 and cel4 mRNAs all disappeared after the addition of glucose with apparent half-lives of less than 20 min. Whether cel mRNAs have short half-lives or glucose affects the stability of cel transcripts remains to be investigated. 
16569456	20060330	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	The xylanolytic enzyme system from the genus Penicillium.	In nature, there are numerous microorganisms that efficiently degrade xylan, a major component of lignocellulose. In particular, filamentous fungi have demonstrated a great capability for secreting a wide range of xylanases, being the genus Aspergillus and Trichoderma the most extensively studied and reviewed among the xylan-producing fungi. However, an important amount of information about the production and genetics of xylanases from fungi of the genus Penicillium has accumulated in recent years. A great number of Penicillia are active producers of xylanolytic enzymes, and the use of xylanases from these species has acquired growing importance in biotechnological applications. This review summarizes our current knowledge about the properties, genetics, expression and biotechnological potential of xylanases from the genus Penicillium. 
11262059	20010323	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Degradation of starchy endosperm cell walls in nongerminating sterilized barley by fungi.	Strains of fungi from different origins, including isolates of the natural microflora of barley, were screened for their ability to modify barley starchy endosperm cell walls in situ. In an initial step, fungi were selected that degrade the major component of the cell walls, that is, (1-->3),(1-->4)-beta-D-glucan, in vitro on artificial media. Nongerminating, sterilized barley, obtained by gamma-irradiation, was inoculated with such fungi and subjected to solid state fermentation under conditions resembling those of a traditional malting process. For some strains of fungi, a clear correlation between the production of endo-beta-glucanase and the friability of the treated kernels was found. Image analysis of Calcofluor stained longitudinal sections of barley kernels fermented with the endo-beta-glucanase producing strains showed that starchy endosperm cell walls were modified. As malt quality is inversely related to its (1-->3),(1-->4)-beta-D-glucan content, the selected strains have high potential to be used as starter cultures during malt production, contributing to the processing quality of the final product. 
16478251	20060216	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic degradation of oligosaccharides in pinto bean flour.	The use of dry edible beans is limited due to the presence of flatulence factors, the raffinose oligosaccharides. Our objective was to investigate the process for the removal of oligosaccharides from pinto bean using enzymatic treatment and to compare it to removal by soaking and cooking methods. Crude enzyme preparation was produced by six fungal species on wheat bran- and okara-based substrates with soy tofu whey. The loss of raffinose oligosaccharides after soaking pinto beans for 16 h at the room temperature was 10%, after cooking for 90 min was 52%, and after autoclaving for 30 min was 58%. On the other hand, the treatment using crude alpha-galactosidase (60 U mL(-1)) produced by Aspergillus awamori NRRL 4869 from wheat bran-based substrate with soy tofu whey on pinto bean flour for 2 h completely hydrolyzed raffinose oligosaccharides. These results supported that the enzymatic treatment was the most effective among various processing methods tested for removing the raffinose oligosaccharides, and hence, crude alpha-galactosidases from fungi have potential use in the food industry. 
23467998	20130308	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Enhancing cellulase production in Trichoderma reesei RUT C30 through combined manipulation of activating and repressing genes.	To investigate whether enzyme production can be enhanced in the Trichoderma reesei industrial hyperproducer strain RUT C30 by manipulation of cellulase regulation, the positive regulator Xyr1 was constitutively expressed under the control of the strong T. reesei pdc promoter, resulting in significantly enhanced cellulase activity in the transformant during growth on cellulose. In addition, constitutive expression of xyr1 combined with downregulation of the negative regulator encoding gene ace1 further increased cellulase and xylanase activities. Compared with RUT C30, the resulting transformant exhibited 103, 114, and 134 % greater total secreted protein levels, filter paper activity, and CMCase activity, respectively. Surprisingly, strong increases in xyr1 basal expression levels resulted in very high levels of CMCase activity during growth on glucose. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of improving cellulase production by modifying regulator expression, and suggest an attractive new single-step approach for increasing total cellulase productivity in T. reesei. 
11566605	20010922	Biomol._Eng.	D016428 	The major exoglucanase secreted by Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model to study protein glycosylation.	The major yeast exoglucanase (ExgIb) consists of a 408 amino acid polypeptide carrying two short N-linked oligosaccharides attached to asparagines 165 (Asn(165)) and 325 (Asn(325)). These oligosaccharides are very similar, in both length and composition, to those present in the vacuolar protease carboxypeptidase Y. Minor glycoforms of exoglucanase arise by underglycosylation of the protein precursor (Exg(165) and Exg(325)) or by elongation of the second oligosaccharide (ExgIa). The fact that these glycoforms can be readily separated and identified by HPLC and/or Western blots converts ExgI in an excellent model to study the role of the several components or branches of the precursor oligosaccharide in the efficiency and selectivity of the oligosaccharidyl transferase in vivo. We have found that the presence of a single glucose attached to Dol-PP-GlcNAc(2)-Man(9) increases the efficiency of transfer of that oligosaccharide to the protein acceptor. Also, the glucotriose unit appears to be involved in the selection of the sequons to be occupied, in such a way that its absence results in a bias towards the glycosylation of a particular sequon. Finally, we have shown the transfer of GlcNAc(2) from Dol-PP-GlcNAc(2) to exoglucanase, an indication that this intermediate is able to translocate from the cytoplasmic to the lumenal face of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. 
22360347	20120225	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	A novel PCR-based approach for the detection and classification of potential cellulolytic fungal strains isolated from museum items and surrounding indoor environment.	To develop a novel PCR-based method able to detect potential cellulolytic filamentous fungi and to classify them exploiting the amplification of the cellobiohydrolase gene (cbh-I) and its polymorphism. A mixed approach including the combination of (i) fungal cultivation and isolation, (ii) classification of fungal isolates through the amplification of the cbh gene using a fluorescently labelled primer (f-CBH-PCR) and (iii) final fungal identification based on amplification and sequencing of the ITS1-5.8S rDNA-ITS2 region of the selected fungal strains was developed. By this approach, it was possible to screen 77 fungal strains belonging to 14 genera and 26 species. The f-CBH-PCR permitted the discrimination of fungal species, producing typical f-CBH profiles. In this study, the cbh gene was used as a preliminary classification tool able to differentiate among themselves the fungal members isolated from indoor museum items and surrounding environment. Such mixed approach consented the fast identification of all isolated fungal strains. The f-CBH-PCR method demonstrated its discrimination power, and it can be considered as a new molecular system suitable for the classification of fungal strains isolated from different environments. 
15944805	20050610	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D016454 	Xylanases from fungi: properties and industrial applications.	Xylan is the principal type of hemicellulose. It is a linear polymer of beta-D-xylopyranosyl units linked by (1-4) glycosidic bonds. In nature, the polysaccharide backbone may be added to 4-O-methyl-alpha-D-glucuronopyranosyl units, acetyl groups, alpha-L-arabinofuranosyl, etc., in variable proportions. An enzymatic complex is responsible for the hydrolysis of xylan, but the main enzymes involved are endo-1,4-beta-xylanase and beta-xylosidase. These enzymes are produced by fungi, bacteria, yeast, marine algae, protozoans, snails, crustaceans, insect, seeds, etc., but the principal commercial source is filamentous fungi. Recently, there has been much industrial interest in xylan and its hydrolytic enzymatic complex, as a supplement in animal feed, for the manufacture of bread, food and drinks, textiles, bleaching of cellulose pulp, ethanol and xylitol production. This review describes some properties of xylan and its metabolism, as well as the biochemical properties of xylanases and their commercial applications. 
1041692	19751001	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Kinetic studies of mold alpha-galactosidase on PNPG hydrolysis.	The kinetic properties of alpha-galactosidase of Mortierella vinacea were investigated in detail using PNPG (p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside) as a substrate. Consequently, the enzyme was markedly inhibited not only by the substrate, but also by the galactose hydrolized. The initial rate of reaction at sufficiently high substrate concentrations, however, did not fall to zero and did approach a finite value. Galactose behaved as a mixed inhibitor and was neither totally competitive nor totally noncompetitive. A rate equation was obtained from a generalized equation derived from a kinetic model which took both the inhibitions into consideration. The constants used in the equation were appropriately estimated. The calculated rate agreed fairly well with the observed initial rate. Moreover, the PNPG hydrolysis progressing in a batch system was found to be approximately representable by simple first order kinetics in which the rate constant was dependent on the initial substrate concentration. 
15643626	20050112	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Effect of cycle time on fungal morphology, broth rheology, and recombinant enzyme productivity during pulsed addition of limiting carbon source.	For many years, high broth viscosity has remained a key challenge in large-scale filamentous fungal fermentations. In previous studies, we showed that broth viscosity could be reduced by pulsed addition of limiting carbon during fed-batch fermentation. The objective in this study was to determine how changing the frequency of pulsed substrate addition affects fungal morphology, broth rheology, and recombinant enzyme productivity. To accomplish this, a series of duplicate fed-batch fermentations were performed in 20-L fermentors with a recombinant glucoamylase producing strain of Aspergillus oryzae. The total cycle time for substrate pulsing was varied over a wide range (30-2,700 s), with substrate added only during the first 30% of each cycle. As a control, a fermentation was conducted with continuous substrate feeding, and in all fermentations the same total amount of substrate was added. Results show that the total biomass concentration remained relatively unaltered, while a substantial decrease in the mean projected area of fungal elements (i.e., average size) was observed with increasing cycle time. This led to reduced broth viscosity and increased oxygen uptake rate. However, high values of cycle time (i.e., 900-2,700 s) showed a significant increase in fungal conidia formation and significantly reduced recombinant enzyme productivity, suggesting that the fungi channeled substrate to storage compounds rather than to recombinant protein. In addition to explaining the effect of cycle time on fermentation performance, these results may aid in explaining the discrepancies observed on scale-up to larger fermentors. 
1767606	19910101	Zentralbl._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Suitability of support materials for the fixation of microfungi].	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Müller-Thurgau F and Aspergillus spec. NH, a producer of glucoamylase, were cultivated in the presence of various supporting materials (three microspherical zeolitic particles, alpha-alumina and foam corundum). The supports were microscopically tested to find out whether they are settled by microfungi or not. Whereas the yeast cells lay on the supports only loosely the hyphae of Aspergillus grew around the supports and with the exception of foam corundum enclosed them in mycelial spheres. This phenomenon may favour the separation of fungal biomass in biotechnological processes. 
24197785	20131108	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Co-expression of RCH10 and AGLU1 confers rice resistance to fungal sheath blight Rhizoctonia solani and blast Magnorpathe oryzae and reveals impact on seed germination.	Rice sheath blight and blast caused by Rhizoctonia solani Kühn and Magnorpathe oryzae respectively, are the two most destructive fungal diseases in rice. With no genetic natural traits conferring resistance to sheath blight, transgenic manipulation provides an obvious approach. In this study, the rice basic chitinase gene (RCH10) and the alfalfa β-1,3-glucanase gene (AGLU1) were tandemly inserted into transformation vector pBI101 under the control of 35S promoter with its enhancer sequence to generate a double-defense gene expression cassette pZ100. The pZ100 cassette was transformed into rice (cv. Taipei 309) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. More than 160 independent transformants were obtained and confirmed by PCR. Northern analysis of inheritable progenies revealed similar levels of both RCH10 and AGLU1 transcripts in the same individuals. Disease resistance to both sheath blight and blast was challenged in open field inoculation. Immunogold detection revealed that RCH10 and AGLU1 proteins were initially located mainly in the chloroplasts and were delivered to the vacuole and cell wall upon infection, suggesting that these subcellular compartments act as the gathering and execution site for these anti-fungal proteins. We also observed that transgenic seeds display lower germination rate and seedling vigor, indicating that defense enhancement might be achieved at the expense of development.  
22512653	20120420	Protein_Pept._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Purification of pectin methylesterase from Lycopersicon esculentum and its application.	Pectin methylesterase (PME) (3.1.1.11) is the pectin degrading enzyme which catalyses the hydrolysis of pectin methylester group, resulting in de-esterification. PME is widely distributed in plants, fungi, yeast and bacteria. In the present study, PME was extracted from tomato by using 8.8% NaCl (4°C). The crude enzyme precipitated with 60% ammonium sulphate resulted in 1.02 fold purification of the enzyme. The purification was done by ion exchange chromatography using DEAE-Cellulose column. This resulted in 1.82 fold purification of the enzyme. The molecular weight of purified enzyme was determined by SDS-PAGE which was found to be 34.0 kDa. During characterization of the purified enzyme, the maximum activity was found at temperature 50°C, pH 6.5, reaction time 45 min. Citrus pectin was the best substrate for maximum enzyme activity. The enzyme did not require any metal ion to express its activity, enzyme was found to be very stable at 4°C and at 50°C the enzyme was stable upto 2 h as it retained 70% of its activity. The K(m) and V(max) values of the enzyme were found to be 0.115 mg/ml and 1.03 μmol/ml/min. PME enhanced the pectin degradation process in apple juice clarification in combination with polygalacturonase and increased %T(650) from 1.7% to 5.6%. 
23102010	20121030	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Production of four Neurospora crassa lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases in Pichia pastoris monitored by a fluorimetric assay.	None Recent studies demonstrate that enzymes from the glycosyl hydrolase family 61 (GH61) show lytic polysaccharide monooxygenase (PMO) activity. Together with cellobiose dehydrogenase (CDH) an enzymatic system capable of oxidative cellulose cleavage is formed, which increases the efficiency of cellulases and put PMOs at focus of biofuel research. Large amounts of purified PMOs, which are difficult to obtain from the native fungal producers, are needed to study their reaction kinetics, structure and industrial application. In addition, a fast and robust enzymatic assay is necessary to monitor enzyme production and purification. Four pmo genes from Neurospora crassa were expressed in P. pastoris under control of the AOX1 promoter. High yields were obtained for the glycosylated gene products PMO-01867, PMO-02916 and PMO-08760 (>300 mg L-1), whereas the yield of non-glycosylated PMO-03328 was moderate (~45 mg L-1). The production and purification of all four enzymes was specifically followed by a newly developed, fast assay based on a side reaction of PMO: the production of H2O2 in the presence of reductants. While ascorbate is a suitable reductant for homogeneous PMO preparations, fermentation samples require the specific electron donor CDH. P. pastoris is a high performing expression host for N. crassa PMOs. The pmo genes under control of the native signal sequence are correctly processed and active. The novel CDH-based enzyme assay allows fast determination of PMO activity in fermentation samples and is robust against interfering matrix components. 
16395555	20060106	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 	Synthesis of enzymes connected with mycoparasitism by ectomycorrhizal fungi.	The production of enzymes involved in mycoparasitism by several strains of ectomycorrhizal fungi: Amanita muscaria (16-3), Laccaria laccata (9-12), L. laccata (9-1), Suillus bovinus (15-4), S. bovinus (15-3), S. luteus (14-7) on different substrates such as colloidal chitin, mycelia of Trichoderma harzianum, T. virens and Mucor hiemalis was examined. Chitinases and beta-1,3-glucanases were assayed spectrophotometrically by measuring the amount of reducing sugars releasing from suitable substrate by means of Miller's method. Beta-glucosidases were determined by measuring the amount of p-nitrophenol released from p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside. It was observed that A. muscaria (16-3) and L. laccata (9-12) biosynthesized the highest activity of enzymes in contrast to the strains of S. bovinus and S. luteus. The mycelium of T. harzianum turned out to be the best substrate for the induction of beta-1,3-glucanases and beta-glucosidases for both strains of L. laccata, although the difference in the induction of chitinases in the presence of mycelia of different species of Trichoderma was not indicated. 
21479715	20110412	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Comparative characterization of endo-polygalacturonase (Pgu1) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Saccharomyces paradoxus under winemaking conditions.	Wine strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae have no to weak natural pectinase activity, despite their genetic ability to secrete an endo-polygalacturonase. The addition of external pectinase of fungal origin has therefore become a common step of winemaking in order to enhance the extraction of compounds located in the grape berry skins during maceration and to ease wine clarification after maturation. Recently, the strong pectinase activity of a wine strain of Saccharomyces paradoxus has been reported. In this study, the endo-polygalacturonase-encoding gene of S. paradoxus was sequenced and its activity was characterised, compared with that of S. cerevisiae and tested under winemaking conditions through overexpression of both genes individually in S. cerevisiae. A few differences in the amino acids sequences between the two proteins were revealed and the activity of the Pgu1 enzyme of S. paradoxus was shown to be weaker under winemaking conditions. Clear indicators of extracellular activity were observed in the wines made with both recombinant strains (i.e. enzyme activity in cell-free wine, higher methanol concentration and higher free-run wine), but the actual composition of the wines fermented with the mutants was only sparingly altered. Although unexpectedly found in lower concentrations in the latter wines, phenolic compounds were shown to be the most discriminatory components. Overexpressing the PGU1 gene of S. paradoxus or that of S. cerevisiae did not make much difference, showing that the higher activity of S. paradoxus strains under laboratory conditions could be due to a different regulation mechanism rather than to a different sequence of PGU1. 
14593867	20031105	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[O-glycosylhydrolases of marine filamentous fungi. beta-1,3-Glucanases of Trichoderma aureviride].	The ability to produce extracellular O-glycosylhydrolases was studied in 14 strains of marine filamentous fungi sampled from bottom sediments of the South China Sea. The following activities were detected in the culture liquids of the fungi: N-acetyl-D-glucosaminidase, D-glucosidase, D-galactosidase, beta-1,3-glucanase, amylase, and pustulanase. beta-1,3-Glucanases were isolated by ultrafiltration, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, and ion-exchange chromatography, and their properties were studied. Data on products of enzymatic digestion of laminaran, absence of transglycosylation activity, and the pattern of action of natural inhibitors confirmed that beta-1,3-glucanase belonged to the exo type. Inhibitor analysis demonstrated the role of a thiol group and tryptophan and tyrosine residues in the catalytic activity. 
12811426	20030618	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Contribution of hydrolytic enzymes produced by saprophytic fungi to the decrease in plant toxicity caused by water-soluble substances in olive mill dry residue.	We studied the influence of saprophytic fungi on the toxic effect that the water-soluble substances in dry residues from olive (ADOR) have on the growth of plants. All saprophytic fungi were able to decrease the phytotoxicity of ADOR, although the toxicity of this residue did not decrease in the same way. Penicillium chrysogenum was able to reduce the toxicity of ADOR when this residue was applied at the highest dose of 15%. Fusarium lateritum, F. graminearum and Mucor racemosus were able to reduce the toxicity of ADOR when this residue was applied at the intermediate doses. However, F. oxysporum decreased the phytotoxicity of ADOR only when the residue was applied at the lowest dose of 2.5%. All saprophytic fungi tested produce endoglucanase, endopolymetylgalacturonase and endoxiloglucanase when grown in the presence of ADOR. A close relationship was found between the decrease in the phytotoxicity of ADOR and the amount of hydrolytic enzymes produced by the saprophytic fungi. These results shows that hydrolytic enzymes can be important in the degradation of phytotoxic substances present in olive mill dry residue. 
9466262	19980218	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and analysis of xlnR, encoding a transcriptional activator co-ordinating xylanolytic expression in Aspergillus niger.	Complementation by transformation of an Aspergillus niger mutant lacking xylanolytic activity led to the isolation of the xlnR gene. The xlnR gene encodes a polypeptide of 875 amino acids capable of forming a zinc binuclear cluster domain with similarity to the zinc clusters of the GAL4 superfamily of transcription factors. The XlnR-binding site 5'-GGCTAAA-3' was deduced after electrophoretic mobility shift assays, DNase I footprinting and comparison of various xylanolytic promoters. The importance of the second G within the presumed XlnR binding site 5'-GGCTAAA-3' was confirmed in vitro and in vivo. The 5'-GGCTAAA-3' consensus sequence is found within several xylanolytic promoters of various Aspergillus species and Penicillium chrysogenum. Therefore, this sequence may be an important and conserved cis-acting element in induction of xylanolytic genes in filamentous fungi. Our results indicate that XlnR is a transcriptional activator of the xylanolytic system in A. niger. 
10705453	20000308	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Purification and characterization of a thermostable chitinase from Streptomyces thermoviolaceus OPC-520 and cloning of the encoding gene.	When Streptomyces thermoviolaceus OPC-520 was grown in a minimal medium with 1% chitin, three activity bands corresponding to proteins of 40 kDa (Chi40), 30 kDa (Chi30), and 25 kDa (Chi25) were detected. Among them, Chi30 was purified from the culture filtrate of the strain. The molecular mass was estimated to be 30 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and its isoelectric point was 3.8. The optimum pH and temperature of Chi30 were 4.0 and 60 degrees C, respectively. Chi30 was stable at pH 6-8 up to 60 degrees C. The gene encoding Chi30 (chi30) was cloned and its nucleotides sequenced. The open reading frame of chi30 encoded a protein consisting of 347 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of 35,621. The mature Chi30 consisted of only a catalytic domain and showed a significant similarity with ChiA from S. coelicolor and ChiA from S. lividans. The existence of a 12-bp direct repeat sequence in the promoter region of chi30 was detected, which have been suggested to be involved in both chitin induction and glucose repression. 
9226960	19970523	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Plasmid instability kinetics in continuous culture of a recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae in airlift bioreactor.	Plasmid instability of a recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae C468/pGAC9 (ATCC 20690) was examined during continuous culture in a nonselective medium in an airlift bioreactor. The recombinant strain contained a 2-micron based shuttle vector pGAC9 and expresses Aspergillus awatnori glucoamylase gene under the control of the yeast enolase I (ENO1) promoter. The changes in the fraction of plasmid-bearing cells and glucoamylase activity followed first-order kinetics. Expressed as a function of time, the decay rates of both the plasmid-bearing cell fraction and glucoamylase expression increased with increasing dilution rates. If expressed as a function of cell generations, the decay rates were nearly constant over the dilution rates tested. The results indicated that the growth rate difference between plasmid-bearing and plasmid-free cells was negligible. This was probably due to the low copy number of the 2-micron based yeast shuttle vector. Thus the contribution of preferential growth to apparent plasmid instability was negligible. A novel numerical method is proposed to evaluate the parameters related to plasmid stability. The estimated values of probability of plasmid loss (P = 0.0499) were nearly constant at different dilution rates. No significant effect of growth rates on plasmid instability was observed. The proposed kinetics agreed well with experimental observations. 
18944429	20081024	Phytopathology	D016428 	Resistance of Gibberellin-Treated Persimmon Fruit to Alternaria alternata Arises from the Reduced Ability of the Fungus to Produce Endo-1,4-beta-Glucanase.	ABSTRACT Black-spot symptoms, caused by Alternaria alternata, developed in persimmon fruits during prolonged storage at -1 degrees C. A preharvest treatment with gibberellic acid (GA(3)) extended the storage life of the fruit by delaying both black-spot development and fruit softening. Conversely, treatment of persimmon fruits with paclobutrazol (PBZ), an inhibitor of gibberellin (GA) synthesis, enhanced black-spot development and fruit softening during storage. Production of endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.4, EG) by A. alternata in culture and in the presence of cell walls from PBZ-treated fruits as the carbon source, was enhanced by 150% over production in the presence of cell walls from control fruits, whereas endoglucanase (EG) production in the presence of cell walls from GA(3)-treated fruits was reduced by 49% relative to controls. To determine the importance of EG in symptom development, A. alternata EG was purified from a culture-inducing medium. It had a molecular mass of 41 kDa, its optimal pH and temperature for activity were 5.5 and 47 degrees C, respectively, and the pI was 4.3. Its K(m) and V(max) were 0.43 mg ml(-1) and 18 mumol reducing groups minute per milligrams of protein, respectively. The internal sequence of a 21-mer amino acid peptide from the purified EG showed 62% similarity and 38% identity to the EG-1 of Trichoderma reesei and of T. longibrachiatum. Purified EG induced black-spot symptoms on the fruit, similar to those caused by A. alternata, whereas boiled enzyme caused only pricking signs. Our results suggest that the black-spot symptoms caused by A. alternata, in persimmon, are related to the ability of the fungus to produce EG in developing lesions. 
23054694	20121012	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	An alkaline thermostable recombinant Humicola grisea var. thermoidea cellobiohydrolase presents bifunctional (endo/exoglucanase) activity on cellulosic substrates.	Humicola grisea var. thermoidea is a deuteromycete which secretes a large spectrum of hydrolytic enzymes when grown on lignocellulosic residues. This study focused on the heterologous expression and recombinant enzyme analysis of the major secreted cellulase when the fungus is grown on sugarcane bagasse as the sole carbon source. Cellobiohydrolase 1.2 (CBH 1.2) cDNA was cloned in Pichia pastoris under control of the AOX1 promoter. Recombinant protein (rCBH1.2) was efficiently produced and secreted as a functional enzyme, presenting a molecular mass of 47 kDa. Maximum enzyme production was achieved at 96 h, in culture medium supplemented with 1.34 % urea and 1 % yeast extract and upon induction with 1 % methanol. Recombinant enzyme exhibited optimum activity at 60 °C and pH 8, and presented a remarkable thermostability, particularly at alkaline pH. Activity was evaluated on different cellulosic substrates (carboxymethyl cellulose, filter paper, microcrystalline cellulose and 4-para-nitrophenyl β-D-glucopyranoside). Interestingly, rCBH1.2 presented both exoglucanase and endoglucanase activities and mechanical agitation increased substrate hydrolysis. Results indicate that rCBH1.2 is a potential biocatalyst for applications in the textile industry or detergent formulation. 
12898712	20030805	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Functional analysis of the cysteine residues and the repetitive sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pir4/Cis3: the repetitive sequence is needed for binding to the cell wall beta-1,3-glucan.	Identification of PIR/CIS3 gene was carried out by amino-terminal sequencing of a protein band released by beta-mercaptoethanol (beta-ME) from S. cerevisiae mnn9 cell walls. The protein was released also by digestion with beta-1,3-glucanases (laminarinase or zymolyase) or by mild alkaline solutions. Deletion of the two carboxyterminal Cys residues (Cys(214)-12aa-Cys(227)-COOH), reduced but did not eliminate incorporation of Pir4 (protein with internal repeats) by disulphide bridges. Similarly, site-directed mutation of two other cysteine amino acids (Cys(130)Ser or Cys(197)Ser) failed to block incorporation of Pir4; the second mutation produced the appearance of Kex2-unprocessed Pir4. Therefore, it seems that deletion or mutation of individual cysteine molecules does not seem enough to inhibit incorporation of Pir4 by disulphide bridges. In fks1Delta and gsc2/fks2Delta cells, defective in beta-1,3-glucan synthesis, modification of the protein pattern found in the supernatant of the growth medium, as well as the material released by beta-ME or laminarinase, was evident. However, incorporation of Pir4 by both disulphide bridges and to the beta-1,3-glucan of the cell wall continued. Deletion of the repetitive sequence (QIGDGQVQA) resulted in the secretion and incorporation by disulphide bridges of Pir4 in reduced amounts together with substantial quantities of the Kex2-unprocessed Pir4 form. Pir4 failed to be incorporated in alkali-sensitive linkages involving beta-1,3-glucan when the first repetitive sequence was deleted. Therefore, this suggests that this sequence is needed in binding Pir4 to the beta-1,3-glucan. 
8817076	19960601	Crit._Rev._Biochem._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	The cellulosome: an exocellular, multiprotein complex specialized in cellulose degradation.	Clostridium thermocellum produces a highly active cellulase system that consists of a high-M(r) multienzyme complex termed cellulosome. Hydrolytic components of the cellulosome are organized around a large, noncatalytic glycoprotein termed CipA that acts both as a scaffolding component and a cellulose-binding factor. Catalytic subunits of the cellulosome bear conserved, noncatalytic subdomains, termed dockerin domains, which bind to receptor domains of CipA, termed cohesin domains. CipA includes nine cohesin domains, a cellulose-binding domain, and a specialized dockerin domain. Proteins of the cell envelope carrying cohesin domains that specifically bind the dockerin domain of CipA have been identified. These proteins may mediate anchoring of the cellulosomes to the cell surface. Cellulase complexes similar to the cellulosome of C. thermocellum are produced by several cellulolytic clostridia. High-M(r) multienzyme complexes have also been identified in anaerobic rumen fungi. The architecture of the fungal complexes also seems to rely on the interaction of conserved, noncatalytic docking domains with a scaffolding component. However, the sequence of the fungal docking domains bears no resemblance to the clostridial dockerin domains, suggesting that the fungal and clostridial complexes arose independently. 
12883866	20030729	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and characterisation of a glucoamylase gene (GlaM) from the dimorphic zygomycete Mucor circinelloides.	This article reports a novel strategy for the cloning of glucoamylase genes using conserved sequences and semi-nested PCR and its application in cloning the GlaM glucoamylase gene and cDNA from the dimorphic zygomycete Mucor circinelloides. The deduced 609-amino-acid enzyme (including signal peptide) is 63% identical to the Rhizopus oryzae raw starch-degrading glucoamylase and is the third glucoamylase reported to have the putative starch-binding domain placed N-terminally. The C-terminal catalytic domain is separated from the starch-binding domain by a serine/threonine-rich linker. An alignment of the cloned gene and cDNA sequences showed that the gene contains three introns. The transcriptional start site and the site of polyadenylation were defined by primer extension and 3'RACE, respectively. The atypical Kozak sequence is identical to the one used in R. oryzae in positions -1 to -4. Northern slot blots revealed that glucoamylase transcription is induced during growth on starch and repressed by glucose. In silico analysis of the 1.9-kb promoter sequence cloned by inverse PCR revealed the presence of several putative regulatory elements, most notably a 19-bp sequence containing six overlapping copies of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Nrg1p binding sequence. 
24171248	20131101	Pak._J._Biol._Sci.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors produced by an endophytic fungus, Colletotrichum sp. TSC13 from Taxus sumatrana.	Colletotrichum sp. have potential to act as antidiabetic agent, due to its alpha-glucosidase inhibitory. Therefore, the objective of present study was to isolate and identify the bioactive compounds responsible for the alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity in Colletotrichum sp. TSC13. The methanol extract of TSC13 mycelia, was partitioned with n-hexane, chloroform and ethyl acetate. The n-hexane fraction exhibited the strongest alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity. Column chromatography of this fraction resulted in 8 sub-fractions (F1-8). Fraction 3 (F3) which showed 71.4 +/- 2.4% inhibition was analysed further. Analysis using GC-MS after methylation of F3 and comparison to spectra databases and confirmation using authentic sample standards showed that F3 had two saturated fatty acid methyl esters, palmitic acid and stearic acid methyl esters and three unsaturated fatty acid methyl esters, oleic acid, linoleic acid and linoleinic acid methyl esters. Unsaturated fatty acids showed higher activity than the saturated fatty acids and the methyl esters form of unsaturated fatty acids showed slightly less active than the free acids. Further analysis using an ethyl acetate extract, it was confirmed that most of the fatty acids were present in the form of free acids. Therefore, it was concluded that the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor compounds in Colletotrichum sp. TSC13 were unsaturated fatty acids. This is the first report that a Colletotrichum sp. from T. sumatrana has alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity. 
15128531	20040507	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Two distinct pathways for trehalose assimilation in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae can synthesize trehalose and also use this disaccharide as a carbon source for growth. However, the molecular mechanism by which extracellular trehalose can be transported to the vacuole and degraded by the acid trehalase Ath1p is not clear. By using an adaptation of the assay of invertase on whole cells with NaF, we showed that more than 90% of the activity of Ath1p is extracellular, splitting of the disaccharide into glucose. We also found that Agt1p-mediated trehalose transport and the hydrolysis of the disaccharide by the cytosolic neutral trehalase Nth1p are coupled and represent a second, independent pathway, although there are several constraints on this alternative route. First, the AGT1/MAL11 gene is controlled by the MAL system, and Agt1p was active in neither non-maltose-fermenting nor maltose-inducible strains. Second, Agt1p rapidly lost activity during growth on trehalose, by a mechanism similar to the sugar-induced inactivation of the maltose permease. Finally, both pathways are highly pH sensitive and effective growth on trehalose occurred only when the medium was buffered at around pH 5.0. The catabolism of trehalose was purely oxidative, and since levels of Ath1p limit the glucose flux in the cells, batch cultures on trehalose may provide a useful alternative to glucose-limited chemostat cultures for investigation of metabolic responses in yeast. 
11940078	20020410	Clin._Exp._Allergy	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and molecular characterization of the Hevea brasiliensis allergen Hev b 11, a class I chitinase.	In the last 10 years type-I allergy against proteins from Hevea brasiliensis latex has become an acknowledged medical issue. Fruit-allergic patients represent one risk group for developing latex allergy. Class I chitinases have been identified from chestnut, avocado and banana as relevant allergens. The chitin binding (hevein) domain from these class I chitinases has been postulated to bear the important IgE binding epitopes. To clone the cDNA of an allergenic latex class I chitinase, to express the recombinant protein and to determine its IgE cross-reactivity with hevein (Hev b 6.02). A full-length cDNA coding for a class I chitinase has been isolated from Hevea latex RNA by reverse transcription followed by PCR. The chitinase encoding sequence has been subcloned into the pMAL expression vector and expressed in E. coli as a fusion protein to maltose binding protein. The highly enriched recombinant protein fraction has been tested for its IgE binding capacity in immunoblots and ELISA. Furthermore, the pathogenesis-related function of the recombinant protein was tested in a fungal growth inhibition assay. The Hevea brasiliensis latex chitinase, designated Hev b 11, displays 70% identity to the endochitinase from avocado and its hevein-domain 58% to hevein (Hev b 6.02). The recombinant Hev b 11-maltose binding protein is recognized by latex- and fruit-allergic patients with IgE binding in both, ELISA and immunoblots. Pre-incubation of sera with rHev b 11-maltose binding protein showed an overall 16% inhibition of subsequent binding to rHev b 6.02-maltose binding protein on solid phase. The growth of F. oxysporum was inhibited in a dose dependent manner by addition of rHev b 11-maltose binding protein to the culture. Hev b 11, a class I chitinase, is another allergen from Hevea latex with a chitin binding domain and displays a different IgE binding capacity compared with hevein. 
2823635	19870701	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Construction of cDNA libraries by blunt-end ligation: high-frequency cloning of long cDNAs from filamentous fungi.	A simplified cDNA synthesis and cloning method, suitable for efficient generation of cDNA libraries at frequencies up to 10(6) clones/micrograms mRNA, is described. Routine synthesis of transcripts of well over 4 kb is facilitated by the use of high-quality RNA template isolated from materials rich in RNases. Laborious cloning steps, like tailing or addition of linkers, can be omitted by the use of efficient blunt-end ligation to plasmid vectors, and rapid verification as well as characterization of the clones is possible by double-stranded plasmid sequencing. Using this method we have constructed several cDNA libraries of different filamentous fungi and show here the synthesis and cloning of cDNA copies larger than 1.8 kb corresponding to three Trichoderma reesei cellulases. 
8221931	19930901	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Transformation of Trichoderma reesei with the Hormoconis resinae glucoamylase P (gamP) gene: production of a heterologous glucoamylase by Trichoderma reesei.	A cDNA encoding for the glucoamylase P enzyme (GAMP) of the fungus Hormoconis resinae was introduced into the cellulolytic filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei under the control of the promoter of the major cellulase gene (cbh1) of Trichoderma. The transforming vector plasmid used was found to be integrated into the genome of T. reesei at various locations and in multiple copies. The size of the GAMP secreted by Trichoderma varied because of different glycosylation patterns. The best transformant strains secreted about 700 mg/l of active GAMP, which is 20-fold more than obtained with H. resinae. 
9139694	19970509	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013486 	Cloning of cutinase transcription factor 1, a transactivating protein containing Cys6Zn2 binuclear cluster DNA-binding motif.	Hydroxy fatty acids from plant cutin were shown previously to induce the expression of the cutinase gene via a palindromic sequence located at -159 base pairs of the cutinase gene in Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi (Nectria hematococca mating type VI). Of the two overlapping palindromes in this sequence, palindrome 2 was found to be essential for the inducibility of cutinase by hydroxy fatty acids. Screening of a phage expression library with the concatenated palindrome 2 as probe detected a distinct cDNA clone encoding a polypeptide designated cutinase transcription factor 1alpha (CTF1alpha) with a calculated molecular weight of 101,109. This protein contains a Cys6Zn2 binuclear cluster motif sharing homology to the Cys6Zn2 binuclear cluster DNA-binding domains of transcription factors from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, S. carlsbergensis, Kluyveromyces lactis, Neurospora crassa, Aspergillus nidulans, and A. flavus. CTF1alpha, expressed in Escherichia coli, showed specific binding to the palindrome 2 DNA fragment but not to palindrome 1 or mutant palindrome 2 DNA fragments, suggesting specific binding of CTF1alpha to palindrome 2. When CTF1alpha was expressed as a fusion protein with the nuclear localization sequence of SV40 in yeast, it transactivated the native cutinase promoter fused to the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (cat) gene. Mutation of palindrome 2 but not palindrome 1 abolished this transactivation. Thus, CTF1alpha positively acts in vivo by binding selectively to palindrome 2 of the cutinase gene promoter. 
22126042	20111201	Ying_Yong_Sheng_Tai_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Mechanism of tomato plants enhanced disease resistance against early blight primed by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus versiforme].	Arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) can not only improve host plants nutrient absorption, but also enhance their disease resistance. Taking the tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) seedlings preinoculated with axbuscular mycorrhizal fungus (AMF) Glomus versiforme as test materials, this paper studied their protective enzyme activities and defense-related genes expression, and their resistance against a fungal pathogen Alternaria solani Sorauer which causes early blight. The seedlings pre-inoculated with AMF and later inoculated with A. solani showed significantly higher activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and peroxidase (POD) in leaves. The leaf SOD activity of the dually inoculated plants reached the maximum 18 h after pathogen inoculation, being 28.6%, 79.2% and 82.8% higher than that of the plants with G. versiforme inoculation alone, pathogen inoculation alone, and non-inoculation, and the Leaf POD activity reached the maximum 65 h after pathogen inoculation, being 762%, 18.3%, and 1710% higher, respectively. Real time RT-PCR analysis showed that dual inoculation with C. versiforme and A. solani strongly induced the expression of three defense-related genes. The transcript levels of pathogen-related protein (PR1), basic type beta-1,3-glucanase (PR-2), and chitinase (PR-3) in leaves were 9.67-, 8.54-, and 13.4-fold higher, as compared with the non-inoculation control, respectively. Bioassay showed that the disease incidence and disease index of the seedlings pre-inoculated with C. versiforme were reduced by 36.3% and 61.4%, respectively, as compared with the non-mycorrhizal control plants. These findings indicated that mycorrhizal colonization could induce stronger and quicker defense responses of host tomato plants, and priming could be an important mechanism of the enhanced disease resistance of mycorrhizal tomato plants. 
18555305	19861201	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Properties of cellulase immobilized on agarose gel with spacer.	Cellulase produced by fungus Trichoderma viride was immobilized on agarose beads (Sepharose 4B) activated by cyanogen bromide and also on activated agarose beads that contained spacer arm (activated CH-Sepharose 4B and Affi-Gel 15). The CMCase activity retained by immobilized cellulase on activated Sepharose containing the spacer tended to be higher than that immobilized without spacer, although the extent of protein immobilization was lower. Also, the higher substrate specificity for cellulase immobilized on beads with spacer was obtained for cellobiose, acid-swollen cellulose, or cellulose powder. The hydrolysis product from their substrates was mainly glucose. 
9010760	19961201	J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Fine substrate specificities of four exo-type cellulases produced by Aspergillus niger, Trichoderma reesei, and Irpex lacteus on (1-->3), (1-->4)-beta-D-glucans and xyloglucan.	To investigate the fine substrate specificities of four highly purified exo-type cellulases (Exo-A from Aspergillus niger, CBHI and CBHII from Trichoderma reesei, and Ex-1 from Irpex lacteus), water-soluble substrates such as barley glucan, xyloglucan from tamarind (Tamarindus indica L.), and their oligosaccharides were employed. Four exo-type cellulases immediately hydrolyzed 3-O-beta-D-cellotriosylglucose to produce cellobiose and laminaribiose. In contrast, CBHII showed no hydrolytic activity towards 3(2)-O-beta-D-cello-biosylcellobiose, which was hydrolyzed to cellobiose by the other exo-type cellulases. These cellulases hydrolyzed the internal linkages of barley glucan and lichenan in an endo-type fashion to produce cellobiose and mix-linked oligosaccharides as main products. The DP-lowering activities of the four exo-type cellulases on barley glucan were in the order of Ex-1, CBHII, Exo-A, and CBHI. Based on gel permeation chromatography analysis of the hydrolysates, Ex-1 seemed to attack the internal cellobiosyl unit adjacent to beta-1,3-glucosidic linkages in barley glucan molecule more frequently than did the other cellulases. Xyloglucan was hydrolyzed only by CBHI and CBHII, and produced hepta-, octa-, and nona-saccharides. In addition, a xyloglucan tetradecasaccharide (XG14) was split only to heptasaccharide (XG7) by CBHI and CBHII. 
11278040	20010330	J._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Genetic engineering of the Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase I (Cel7B) for enhanced partitioning in aqueous two-phase systems containing thermoseparating ethylene oxide--propylene oxide copolymers.	Endoglucanases (endo-1,4-beta-D-glucan-4-glucanohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.4) are industrially important enzymes. In this study endoglucanase I (EGI or Cel7B) of the filamentous fungi Trichoderma reesei has been genetically engineered to investigate the influence of tryptophan rich peptide extensions (tags) on partitioning in an aqueous two-phase model system. EGI is a two-domain enzyme and is composed of a N-terminal catalytic domain and a C-terminal cellulose binding domain, separated by a linker. The aim was to find an optimal tag and fusion position, which further could be utilised for large scale extractions. Peptide tags of different length and composition were attached at various localisations of EGI. The fusion proteins were expressed from T. reesei with the use of the gpdA promoter from Aspergillus nidulans. Variations in secreted levels between the engineered proteins were obtained. The partitioning of EGI in an aqueous two-phase system composed of a thermoseparating ethylene oxide-propylene oxide random copolymer (EO(50)PO(50)) and dextran, could be significantly improved by relatively minor genetic engineering. The (Trp-Pro)(4) tag added after a short stretch of the linker, containing five proline residues, gave in the highest partition coefficient of 12.8. The yield in the top phase was 94%. The specific activity was 83% of the specific activity of unmodified EGI on soluble substrate. The efficiency of a tag fused to a protein is shown by the tag efficiency factor (TEF). A hypothetical TEF of 1.0 would indicate full tag exposure and optimal contribution to the protein partitioning by the fused tag. The location of the fusion point after the sequence of five proline residues in the linker of EGI is the most beneficial in two-phase separation. The highest TEF (0.97) was obtained with the (Trp-Pro)(2) tag at this position, indicating full exposure and intactness of the tag. However, the peptide tag composed of (Trp-Pro)(4) improved the partition properties the most but had lower TEF in comparison to (Trp-Pro)(2). 
10561593	19991124	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Alpha-complemented beta-galactosidase. An in vivo model substrate for the molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 90 in yeast.	Intracistronic complementation of N-terminally truncated beta-galactosidase mutants such as M15 by coexpressed alpha-peptide was originally discovered in Escherichia coli and exploited for plasmid cloning as the well-known blue-white screening method. We show here that alpha-complementation also works in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and that it can be used as a simple nonselective enzymatic marker for a variety of in vivo studies, for example, on the role of molecular chaperones in protein folding and assembly. To be able to induce alpha-complementation post-translationally, we have constructed a hormone-inducible alpha-peptide by fusion of the DNA encoding the alpha-peptide to that of to the hormone binding domain of the estrogen receptor. The accumulation of both subunits, the alpha-peptide and M15, is severely compromised when they are expressed separately, presumably because their hydrophobic surfaces remain exposed. Moreover, alpha-complementation is defective in a strain of S. cerevisiae carrying a point mutant of the molecular chaperone heat-shock protein 90. Heat-shock protein 90, which coprecipitates with M15, might be required in vivo to prevent the degradation of unassembled M15 and to hold it in an interaction-competent conformation. 
22973032	20120914	J._Virol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	The NS1 protein of influenza A virus interacts with cellular processing bodies and stress granules through RNA-associated protein 55 (RAP55) during virus infection.	The nonstructural protein (NS1) of influenza A virus performs multiple functions in the virus life cycle. Proteomic screening for cellular proteins which interact with NS1 identified the cellular protein RAP55, which is one of the components of cellular processing bodies (P-bodies) and stress granules. To verify whether NS1 interacts with cellular P-bodies, interactions between NS1, RAP55, and other P-body-associated proteins (Ago1, Ago2, and DCP1a) were confirmed using coimmunoprecipitation and cellular colocalization assays. Overexpression of RAP55 induced RAP55-associated stress granule formation and suppressed virus replication. Knockdown of RAP55 with small interfering RNA (siRNA) or expression of a dominant-negative mutant RAP55 protein with defective interaction with P-bodies blocked NS1 colocalization to P-bodies in cells. Expression of NS1 inhibited RAP55 expression and formation of RAP55-associated P-bodies/stress granules. The viral nucleoprotein (NP) was found to be targeted to stress granules in the absence of NS1 but localized to P-bodies when NS1 was coexpressed. Restriction of virus replication via P-bodies occurred in the early phases of infection, as the number of RAP55-associated P-bodies in cells diminished over the course of virus infection. NS1 interaction with RAP55-associated P-bodies/stress granules was associated with RNA binding and mediated via a protein kinase R (PKR)-interacting viral element. Mutations introduced into either RNA binding sites (R38 and K41) or PKR interaction sites (I123, M124, K126, and N127) caused NS1 proteins to lose the ability to interact with RAP55 and to inhibit stress granules. These results reveal an interplay between virus and host during virus replication in which NP is targeted to P-bodies/stress granules while NS1 counteracts this host restriction mechanism. 
7262712	19810101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D003160 D016428 	Effect of cultivation conditions on cellulase activity of higher fungi.	Production of cellulases was followed in 4 cultures of higher fungi (Agrocybe cylindracea, Len tinus tigrinus, Pleurotus ostreatus, Ramaria formosa) cultivated on various substrates under different conditions. Stationary cultivation was more suitable than the submerged one. Addition of carboxymethy cellulose (CMC) was more suitable than addition of glucose. The cellulase activity in the presence of CMC was higher after a 12-d cultivation than after a 23-d period. Pine sawdust was most effective of all the substrates tested for the production of cellulases. Beech sawdust and wheat or rye straw were also useful. The addition of yeast autolyzate decreased the production of cellulases. A culture of L. tigrinud was the best producer. 
1854201	19910501	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Identification of a specific manganese peroxidase among ligninolytic enzymes secreted by Phanerochaete chrysosporium during wood decay.	The specific enzymes associated with lignin degradation in solid lignocellulosic substrates have not been identified. Therefore, we examined extracts of cultures of Phanerochaete chrysosporium that were degrading a mechanical pulp of aspen wood. Western blot (immunoblot) analyses of the partially purified protein revealed lignin peroxidase, manganese-dependent peroxidase (MnP), and glyoxal oxidase. The dominant peroxidase, an isoenzyme of MnP (pI 4.9), was isolated, and its N-terminal amino acid sequence and amino acid composition were determined. The results reveal both similarities to and differences from the deduced amino acid sequences from cDNA clones of dominant MnP isoenzymes from liquid cultures. Our results suggest, therefore, that the ligninolytic-enzyme-encoding genes that are expressed during solid substrate degradation differ from those expressed in liquid culture or are allelic variants of their liquid culture counterparts. In addition to lignin peroxidase, MnP, and glyoxal oxidase, xylanase and protease activities were present in the extracts of the degrading pulp. 
9218355	19970101	Microbios	D016428 	Production, purification and characterization of an extracellular alpha-amylase enzyme isolated from Aspergillus flavus.	Filamentous fungi isolated from cereals were screened for their ability to produce alpha-amylase (1,4-alpha-glucan glucanohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.1). A selected strain identified as Aspergillus flavus showed high enzymatic activity. A single extracellular alpha-amylase was purified to homogeneity by a starch adsorption method. The molecular weight (M(r)) of the A. flavus alpha-amylase was approximately 75,000 +/- 3,000 by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and that of the subunit was approximately 75,000 +/- 3000 SDS-PAGE. The optimal activity of the purified enzyme was achieved at pH 7.0 and 30 degrees C. K+ ions increased the alpha-amylase activity, but Mg2+ did not greatly affect enzyme activity. Mn2+, Zn2+, Cu2+ and Fe3+ ions strongly inhibited the enzyme activity. The products of hydrolysis of native starch by the A. flavus enzyme were mainly glucose as well as unidentified oligosaccharides. 
23995923	20130903	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Substrate-induced transcriptional activation of the MoCel7C cellulase gene is associated with methylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae.	The mechanisms involved in substrate-dependent regulation of a Magnaporthe oryzae gene encoding a cellulase which we designate MoCel7C (MGG_14954) were investigated. The levels of MoCel7C transcript were dramatically increased more than 1,000-fold, 16 to 24 h after transfer to a medium containing 2% carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), while levels were very low or undetectable in conventional rich medium. Green fluorescent protein reporter assays showed that the MoCel7C promoter was activated by cello-oligosaccharides larger than a pentamer. CMC-induced activation of the MoCel7C promoter was suppressed by glucose and cellobiose. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that histone H3 methylation on lysine 4 (H3K4) at the MoCel7C locus was associated with activation of the gene by CMC. Consistently, CMC-induced MoCel7C gene activation was drastically diminished in a knockout (KO) mutant of the MoSET1 gene, which encodes a histone lysine methyltransferase that catalyzes H3K4 methylation in M. oryzae. Interestingly, however, MoCel7C transcript levels under noninducing conditions were significantly increased in the MoSET1 KO mutant, suggesting that MoSET1 directly or indirectly plays a role in both activation and suppression of the MoCel7C gene in response to environmental signals. In addition, gene expression and silencing vectors using the MoCel7C promoter were constructed.  
11319815	20010426	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	In situ assays of fungal enzymes in cells permeabilized by osmotic shock.	Permeabilization of yeast and other fungal cells by osmotic shock enabled the in situ assays of intracellular plasma membrane-bound enzymes, such as beta-1,3-glucan synthase, chitin synthase, and Na(+)/K(+) ATPase as well as the soluble, cytoplasmic enzymes, such as lactate dehydrogenase and alpha-glucosidase. The permeabilization was accomplished by rapid changes in osmolarity of the washing buffer at 0 degrees C whereby 0.5-3.5 M glycerol, sorbitol, and/or mannitol and/or 1 M KCl could be used as the osmolytes. No appreciable leakage of intracellular proteins occurred during the permeabilization procedure. The described procedure caused practically complete cell permeabilization while avoiding treatments with organic solvents, detergents, and other xenobiotics currently used for the permeabilization of microbial cells. 
9323869	19970101	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 	Trehalases from spores and vegetative cells of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Trehalase (THA) activity from S. cerevisiae spores and vegetative cells could be differentiated in cell-free extracts. THA from the vegetative cells has an optimal activity at neutral pH whereas biphase pH optimum in the spores was observed. The enzyme from the spores exhibited higher thermostability than that from the vegetative cells. The presence of magnesium ions was necessary mainly for THA activity from the vegetative cells. The effect of the other metal ions studied: Hg2+, Ag2+, Cu2+, Fe3+, Ni2+, Cd2+ etc. (Table II), on THA from both sources was almost the same, however, the spores THA was resistant to Pb2+ and especially to Zn2+. Moreover, the influence of inorganic polyphosphates and polyamines was also quite dissimilar. Polyphosphates inhibited THA from the vegetative cells and to a smaller extent from the spores. On the other hand, polyamines stimulated highly THA activity from vegetative yeast cells in contrast to spores one. The effect of these ions modulators would facilitate differentiating of THA activity in the cell-free extracts from both sources. These data could be interpreted as phenotypic reflections of trehalase genes expression in the S. cerevisiae cells. 
14993687	20040303	Acta_Crystallogr._D_Biol._Crystallogr.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of a novel Trichoderma reesei xylanase IV belonging to glycoside hydrolase family 5.	Xylanase IV (XYN IV) is a new recently characterized xylanase from Trichoderma reesei. It is able to degrade several different xylans, mainly producing xylose. XYN IV has been crystallized by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method, using PEG 6000 as a precipitant. The crystals belong to the orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 86.3, b = 137.5, c = 196.1 A, alpha = beta = gamma = 90 degrees. Assuming a molecular weight of 50.3 kDa, the V(M) values indicate there to be four XYN IV monomers in an asymmetric unit and the solvent content of the crystals to be 57%. Based on dynamic light-scattering measurements, XYN IV is a dimer in solution. A native data set to 2.8 A resolution has been collected at a home laboratory and a data set to 2.2 A resolution has been collected using synchrotron radiation. 
9514763	19980606	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Small binding proteins selected from a combinatorial repertoire of knottins displayed on phage.	Knottins are a group of small, disulphide-bonded proteins that bind with high specificity to their target molecules. These proteins appear to use different faces of the protein for their interactions with different targets. Here, we attempted to create knottins with novel binding activities based on the cellulose-binding domain of the fungal enzyme cellobiohydrolase I. Variation was introduced to the face of the protein that binds cellulose. Seven residues, which are located in two regions of the polypeptide chain and form a patch of about 400 A2 on the protein surface, were simultaneously varied by random mutation of the gene. The repertoire was cloned for display on filamentous bacteriophage (5.5 x 10(8) clones), and selected for binding to cellulose or to one of three enzymes (alpha-amylase, alkaline phosphatase and beta-glucuronidase). We thereby isolated variant knottins against cellulose (differing in sequence from the parent knottin) and also against alkaline phosphatase. The binding to (glycosylated) alkaline phosphatase was highly specific with an affinity of about 10 microM, required the presence of disulphide bonds and was mediated through protein (rather than carbohydrate) contacts. Knottin scaffolds therefore appear to be a promising architecture for the creation of small folded proteins with binding activities, with the potential for improvement of binding affinities by mutation, or of using other faces of the protein to provide greater structural diversity in the primary repertoire. 
19894502	20091110	Zhongguo_Zhong_Yao_Za_Zhi	D016428 D013485 	[Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated Chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase gene transformation for Pinellia ternata].	To obtain transgenic Pinellia ternata plants resistant to fungus by transfer Chitinase and beta-1,3-Glucanase gene from Trichoderma harzianum. Using hygromycin phosphotransferase as the selection marker, the Chitinase gene (ech42), beta-1,3-Glucanase gene (gluc78) and both gene pCAMBIA(ech42 + gluc78) driven by CaMV35S promoter were transferred into P. ternata callus via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. PCR results confirmed that the regenerants were identified to be transgenic lines and the RT-PCR results confirmed that foreign genes construction were transfer to mRNA. Two foreign genes were inherited stably to T5 generation according to PCR results of the lines. The results showed that chitinase gene ech42 and beta-1, 3-glucanase gene gluc78 respectively or together introducing and co-integrating into P. ternata 
95240	19790101	Acta_Biol._Med._Ger.	D016428 	Activation of fungal alpha-amylase by dithioerythritol.	The activity of fungal alpha-amylase has been shown to be influenced by disulfide-reducing reagents. Thus, the enzymatic activity increases in the presence of dithioerythritol or 2-mercaptoethanol. L-Cysteine is also capable of increasing the activity, but the activation competes with an inactivation reaction which dominates at higher reagent concentrations (greater than 20 mM). A possible scheme interpreting the results is given. 
8355617	19930501	Mol._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning of a gene involved in glucose sensing in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Cells of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae display a wide range of glucose-induced regulatory phenomena, including glucose-induced activation of the RAS-adenylate cyclase pathway and phosphatidylinositol turnover, rapid post-translational effects on the activity of different enzymes as well as long-term effects at the transcriptional level. A gene called GGS1 (for General Glucose Sensor) that is apparently required for the glucose-induced regulatory effects and several ggs1 alleles (fdp1, byp1 and cif1) has been cloned and characterized. A GGS1 homologue is present in Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum. Yeast ggs1 mutants are unable to grow on glucose or related readily fermentable sugars, apparently owing to unrestricted influx of sugar into glycolysis, resulting in its rapid deregulation. Levels of intracellular free glucose and metabolites measured over a period of a few minutes after addition of glucose to cells of a ggs1 delta strain are consistent with our previous suggestion of a functional interaction between a sugar transporter, a sugar kinase and the GGS1 gene product. Such a glucose-sensing system might both restrict the influx of glucose and activate several signal transduction pathways, leading to the wide range of glucose-induced regulatory phenomena. Deregulation of these pathways in ggs1 mutants might explain phenotypic defects observed in the absence of glucose, e.g. the inability of ggs1 diploids to sporulate. 
18425608	20080422	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Rapid isolation of the Trichoderma strain with higher degrading ability of a filter paper and superior proliferation characteristics using avicel plates and the double-layer selection medium.	The cost of cellulase is still a problem for bioethanol production. As the cellulase of Trichoderma reesei is applicable for producing ethanol from cellulosic materials, the cellulase productivity of this fungus should be increased. Therefore, we attempted to develop a system to isolate the strain with higher degrading ability of a filter paper and superior proliferation characteristics among the conidia treated with the mitotic arrester, colchicine. When green mature conidia of T. reesei RUT C-30 were swollen, autopolyploidized, and incubated in the double-layer selection medium containing Avicel, colonies appeared on the surface earlier than the original strain. When such colonies and the original colony were incubated on the Avicel plates, strain B5, one of the colonies derived from the colchicine-treated conidia, showed superior proliferation characteristics. Moreover, when strain B5 and the original strain were compared in the filter paper degrading ability and the cellulose hydrolyzing activity, strain B5 was also superior to the original strain. It was suspected that superior proliferation characteristics of strain B5 reflects higher filter paper degrading ability. Thus, we concluded that the Trichoderma strain with higher degrading ability of a filter paper and superior proliferation characteristics can be isolated using Avicel plates and the double-layer selection medium. 
15928976	20050602	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Extracellular xylanases from two pathogenic races of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceris: enzyme production in culture and purification and characterization of a major isoform as an alkaline endo-beta-(1,4)-xylanase of low molecular weight.	Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceris, the causal agent of Fusarium wilt of chickpea, comprises eight pathogenic races and two pathotypes. Races 0 and 5, representative of the least virulent yellowing pathotype and the most virulent wilt pathotype, respectively, produced extracellular xylanases when grown on minimal medium supplemented with either 1% commercial birchwood xylan or 0.3% chickpea cell walls. The pattern of extracellular proteins analysed by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the two media presented some minor but distinctive differences between fungal races. By preparative isoelectrofocusing, the xylanase activity in cell wall-culture filtrates could be resolved into basic and neutral fractions with pI values around to 10 and 8, respectively, whereas the xylan-culture filtrates contained an additional acidic fraction of pI around 4. A common major xylanase was purified 7-fold to homogeneity by cation-exchange chromatography and chromatofocusing. The purified xylanase has a molecular weight of 21.6 kDa, optimum pH and temperature of 5.5 and 55 degrees C, respectively, pI in the range of 8.2 to 9.0, and Km and Vmax values of 2.24 mg ml(-1) (birchwood xylan as substrate) and 1200 nkat mg(-1) protein (72 U mg(-1) protein), respectively. The enzyme has an endo mode of action, hydrolysing xylan to xylobiose and higher short-chain xylooligosaccharides without forming free xylose. 
7620815	19950101	Acta_Microbiol_Immunol_Hung	D003160 D016428 	Simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of rice straw into ethanol.	The physicochemical pretreatment of ball milled rice straw with different oxidizing agents, peracetic acid, alkali-peroxide, manganese-peroxide compounds under steaming pressure were studied. The pretreatment resulted in major changes in chemical composition of rice straw. The peroxide treated substrates were found to be most susceptible to enzymatic saccharification. A maximum saccharification (77.4%) of alkaline-peroxide treated rice straw (5%, w/v) was achieved using cellulase enzyme produced by mixed cultivation of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 and Aspergillus ochraceus containing 1.83 FPU, 1.63 cellobiase and xylanase 2.03 IU/ml. The hydrolysate was fermented using coculture of a temperature resistant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pachysolen tannophilus resulting in 1.5% (w/v) ethanol. The SSF of 10.0% (w/v) H2O2-MnSO4 treated straw yielded maximum ethanol (2.9%, w/v) after 72 h at 40 degrees C. As a consequence of the well-balanced cellulase production by mixed fungal culture, the supplementation of cellobiase or xylanase was not necessary in the simultaneous saccharification and fermentation process. 
22543421	20120501	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	A novel strain of Brevibacillus laterosporus produces chitinases that contribute to its biocontrol potential.	A novel strain exhibiting entomopathogenic and chitinolytic activity was isolated from mangrove marsh soil in India. The isolate was identified as Brevibacillus laterosporus by phenotypic characterization and 16S rRNA sequencing and designated Lak1210. When grown in the presence of colloidal chitin as the sole carbon source, the isolate produced extracellular chitinases. Chitinase activity was inhibited by allosamidin indicating that the enzymes belong to the family 18 chitinases. The chitinases were purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation followed by chitin affinity chromatography yielding chitinases and chitinase fragments with 90, 75, 70, 55, 45, and 25 kDa masses. Mass spectrometric analyses of tryptic fragments showed that these fragments belong to two distinct chitinases that are almost identical to two putative chitinases, a 89.6-kDa four-domain chitodextrinase and a 69.4-kDa two-domain enzyme called ChiA1, that are encoded on the recently sequenced genome of B. laterosporus LMG15441. The chitinase mixture showed two pH optima, at 6.0 and 8.0, and an optimum temperature of 70 °C. The enzymes exhibited antifungal activity against the phytopathogenic fungus Fusarium equiseti. Insect toxicity bioassays with larvae of diamondback moths (Plutella xylostella), showed that addition of chitinases reduced the time to reach 50 % mortality upon infection with non-induced B. laterosporus from 3.3 to 2.1 days. This study provides evidence for the presence of inducible, extracellular chitinolytic enzymes in B. laterosporus that contribute to the strain's antifungal activity and insecticidal activity. 
21449027	20110331	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Integrated analysis of the global transcriptional response to α-amylase over-production by Aspergillus oryzae.	The filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae is an important microbial cell factory for industrial production of many enzymes, such as α-amylase. In order to optimize the industrial enzyme production process, there is a need to understand fundamental processes underlying enzyme production, here under how enzyme production links to metabolism through global regulation. Through a genome-scale metabolic network for integrated analysis of transcriptome data and flux calculation, we identified key players (genes, enzymes, proteins, and metabolites) involved in the processes of enzyme synthesis and secretion, nucleotide metabolism, and amino acid metabolism that can be the potential targets for improving industrial enzyme production. 
24333140	20131217	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	The distinctive regulatory roles of PrtT in the cell metabolism of Penicillium oxalicum.	PrtT is a fungal-specific transcription activator of extracellular proteases in Aspergilli. In this study, the roles of the PrtT homolog from Penicillum oxalicum was investigated by transcription profiling in combination with electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). The prtT deletion dramatically reduced extracellular protease activities and caused intracellular nutrient limitation when cultured on casein as the sole carbon source. PrtT was found to directly regulate the expression of an intracellular peptidase encoding gene (tripeptidyl-peptidase) and the gene encoding the extracellular dipeptidyl-aminopeptidase V, in addition to the expected extracellular peptidase genes (carboxypeptidase and aspergillopepsin). Five amylase genes (α-amylase, glucoamylase, α-glucosidase) and three major facilitator superfamily transporter genes related to maltose, monosaccharide and peptide transporting were also confirmed as putative targets of PrtT by EMSA. In contrast, the transcription levels of other genes encoding polysaccharide degrading enzymes (e.g. cellulases) and most iron or multidrug transporter encoding genes were up- or down-regulated in the ΔprtT mutant due to nutrient limitation resulting from the reduced usage of the sole carbon source, casein. These results deepen the understanding of the interaction of regulation systems for nitrogen and carbon catabolism, which benefit strain improvement of P. oxalicum for industrial enzyme production.  
8081506	19940601	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 	Cyclic AMP signalling pathway and trehalase activation in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	The response of derepressed cells of Schizosaccharomyces pombe to the addition of glucose included a marked and reversible activation of neutral trehalase that was not produced in repressed cells. The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, the protonophore 2,4-dinitrophenol or the uncoupler sodium azide also enhanced trehalase activity in derepressed cells provided glucose was present in the incubation assays. However, only 2,4-dinitrophenol or cycloheximide was able to induce trehalase activation in repressed cells. Stimulation of trehalase by these compounds was preceded in all cases by a rapid increase in adenosine 3'-5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) content. Since exogenous cAMP can activate trehalase both in repressed and derepressed growing cells, the results provide evidence for the existence of an induced cAMP signalling pathway in the fission yeast with several entries for trehalase activation. The correlation between cAMP increase and trehalase activation was not maintained when the enzyme was heat-shock-activated, supporting the concept that trehalase activity can be also enhanced in cells by another mechanism in which cAMP does not act as second messenger. 
9039701	19970101	Parasitol._Res.	D016428 	Light and electron microscopy study of carbohydrate antigens found in the electron-lucent layer of Pneumocystis carinii cysts.	The localization and biochemical nature of antigens found in the electron-lucent layer (ELL) of Pneumocystis carinii cysts using polyclonal rabbit antibodies are described. These antigens, specific for the cystic stages of the parasite, were shared by organisms from different hosts, suggesting that they represent functionally important components of the cyst cell wall. The binding sites were situated on an interwoven net of fibrils in the ELL produced by mild to strong proteolysis. Degradation of this residue by glucanase and chitinase confirms that this layer contains branched glucan and chitin. In contrast, the prompt susceptibility of the polysaccharide-rich ELL to proteolysis reveals that proteins are also relevant in building up the cyst-wall glucan skeleton. It is therefore concluded that the formation of the Pneumocystis cyst wall shows differences to the typical fungal cell-wall architecture. The taxonomical debate regarding this unique protist is ongoing, and consideration of these immunological and morphological findings may be useful for the study of the biology and phylogeny of Pneumocystis. 
24517025	20140213	Pak._J._Biol._Sci.	D016428 	Adaptive expression of host cell wall degrading enzymes in fungal disease: an example from Fusarium root rot of medicinal Coleus.	Quantity of extracellular proteins and activities two cell wall degrading enzymes pectinase and cellulase were determined in the culture filtrate of Fusarium solani, the causal organism of root rot of Coleus forskohlii. Substitution of carbon source in the medium with either pectin or carboxymethyl cellulose led to the increased production of extracellular proteins by the fungus. Pectinase and cellulase activity in the culture filtrate was detected only when the growth medium contained substituted carbon source in the form of pectin and CMC, respectively. Pectinase activity was highest after 5 days incubation and then decreased gradually with time but cellulase activity showed a steady time dependent increase. In vitro virulence study showed the requirement of both the enzymes for complete expression of rot symptoms on Coleus plants. Thus the present study established the adaptive, substrate dependent expression of the two enzymes by the fungus and also their involvement in the root rot disease of Coleus forskohlii. 
6358191	19831201	J._Bacteriol.	D003160 D016428 	Variation of (1 leads to 3)-beta-glucanases in Saccharomyces cerevisiae during vegetative growth, conjugation, and sporulation.	The total (1 leads to 3)-beta-glucanase activities associated with cell extracts and cell walls of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were measured during vegetative growth, conjugation, and sporulation. Using a system of column chromatography, we resolved (1 leads to 3)-beta-glucanase activity into six different enzymes (namely, glucanases I, II, IIIA, IIIB, IV, and V). The contributions of the individual enzymes to the total activity at the different stages of the life cycle were determined. Total glucanase activity increased during exponential growth and decreased in stationary resting-phase cells. Glucanase IIIA was the predominant enzyme in stationary resting-phase cells. Glucanases I, II, IIIB, and IV were either absent or present at low levels in stationary phase cells, but their individual activities (in particular, glucanase IIIB activity) increased substantially during exponential growth. Total (1 leads to 3)-beta-glucanase activity did not change significantly during conjugation of two haploid mating strains, S. cerevisiae 2180A and 2180B, and no notable changes were detected in the activities of the individual enzymes. Sporulation was accompanied by a rapid increase and then a decrease in total glucanase activity. Most of the increase was due to a dramatic rise in the activity of glucanase V, which appeared to be a sporulation-specific enzyme. Glucanase activity was not derepressed by lowering the glucose concentration in the growth medium. 
21980519	20111008	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Identification of the CRE-1 cellulolytic regulon in Neurospora crassa.	In filamentous ascomycete fungi, the utilization of alternate carbon sources is influenced by the zinc finger transcription factor CreA/CRE-1, which encodes a carbon catabolite repressor protein homologous to Mig1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In Neurospora crassa, deletion of cre-1 results in increased secretion of amylase and β-galactosidase. Here we show that a strain carrying a deletion of cre-1 has increased cellulolytic activity and increased expression of cellulolytic genes during growth on crystalline cellulose (Avicel). Constitutive expression of cre-1 complements the phenotype of a N. crassa Δcre-1 strain grown on Avicel, and also results in stronger repression of cellulolytic protein secretion and enzyme activity. We determined the CRE-1 regulon by investigating the secretome and transcriptome of a Δcre-1 strain as compared to wild type when grown on Avicel versus minimal medium. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-PCR of putative target genes showed that CRE-1 binds to only some adjacent 5'-SYGGRG-3' motifs, consistent with previous findings in other fungi, and suggests that unidentified additional regulatory factors affect CRE-1 binding to promoter regions. Characterization of 30 mutants containing deletions in genes whose expression level increased in a Δcre-1 strain under cellulolytic conditions identified novel genes that affect cellulase activity and protein secretion. Our data provide comprehensive information on the CRE-1 regulon in N. crassa and contribute to deciphering the global role of carbon catabolite repression in filamentous ascomycete fungi during plant cell wall deconstruction. 
11714314	20011121	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013486 	Determination of cellular carbohydrates in peanut fungal pathogens and baker's yeast by capillary electrophoresis and electrochromatography.	In this work, the quantitation of cellular carbohydrates, namely chitin and glucan, in peanut fungal pathogens and baker's yeast was carried out by capillary electrophoresis (CE) and capillary electrochromatography (CEC). The chitin and glucan of the fungi were hydrolyzed by the enzymes chitinase and glucanase, respectively, to their corresponding sugar monomers N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) and glucose (Glc). These two monosaccharides were then tagged with 6-aminoquinoline (6-AQ) to allow their separation and detection in CE and CEC. The 6-AQ derivatives of GlcNAc and Glc formed the basis for the determination by CE and CEC of chitin and glucan in peanut fungi and baker's yeast. Several parameters affecting the separation of the 6-AQ derivatives of GlcNAc and Glc, including the separation voltage and the composition of the running electrolyte, were investigated. Under the optimized separation conditions, the contents of cellular carbohydrates including N-acetylglucosamine, chitin, glucose, and glucan in some fungi, such as Sclerotinia minor, Sclerotium rolfsii, and baker's yeast, were successfully determined. The method described here allowed the assessment of genetic differences in Sclerotium rolfsii isolates from various locations. 
1041692	19751001	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Kinetic studies of mold alpha-galactosidase on PNPG hydrolysis.	The kinetic properties of alpha-galactosidase of Mortierella vinacea were investigated in detail using PNPG (p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside) as a substrate. Consequently, the enzyme was markedly inhibited not only by the substrate, but also by the galactose hydrolized. The initial rate of reaction at sufficiently high substrate concentrations, however, did not fall to zero and did approach a finite value. Galactose behaved as a mixed inhibitor and was neither totally competitive nor totally noncompetitive. A rate equation was obtained from a generalized equation derived from a kinetic model which took both the inhibitions into consideration. The constants used in the equation were appropriately estimated. The calculated rate agreed fairly well with the observed initial rate. Moreover, the PNPG hydrolysis progressing in a batch system was found to be approximately representable by simple first order kinetics in which the rate constant was dependent on the initial substrate concentration. 
12577587	20030213	Nahrung	D016428 	Dynamic rheological properties of dough as affected by amylases from various sources.	The effect of alpha-amylases from cereal, fungal, and bacterial sources on dough dynamic rheological properties was investigated. Dynamic rheological study of flour-and-water doughs during resting period showed significant changes in dough rheological properties as a function of alpha-amylases. Addition of alpha-amylases caused a time-dependent decrease in G', storage modulus. The enzyme action on starch during baking increased viscous flow properties. These changes were temperature-dependent. The thermal inactivation temperature of alpha-amylase plays an important role in modification of starch. Rheological changes in dough will alter the machinability of the dough and the quality of end products. 
17178246	20061221	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 	Function analysis of steA homolog in Aspergillus oryzae.	The asexual ascomycete Aspergillus oryzae has an steA homolog in its genome. The steA homolog of A. oryzae was transcribed in the wild-type strain but steA disruption did not affect the phenotype of the disruptant strain. On the other hand, the steA-overexpressing strain showed the restriction of vegetative hyphal growth and conidiation, and the formation of balloon-shaped structures. The restriction of vegetative hyphal growth and conidiation were partially rescued by high osmolarity. In addition, the hyphal growth of the steA-overexpressing strain was inhibited by Calcofluor white, and the strain was found to be sensitive to cell-wall-degrading reagents. Increase of secretory cell-wall-degrading enzymes of the steA-overexpressing strain was detected. These results indicate that SteA regulates cell-wall-degrading enzymes and that the phenotypes of A. oryzae steA-overexpressing strain may be due to cell wall abnormalities. steA may participate in cell wall metabolism. 
18759041	20080902	Sci._China,_C,_Life_Sci.	D016428 	Detection of a protein, AngCP, which binds specifically to the three upstream regions of glaA gene in A. niger T21.	Electromobility shift assay (EMSA) was used to scan 600 bp of 5' cis regulatory sequence of Aspergillus niger (A. niger) T21 glucoamylase gene (glaA) for binding by partially fractionated T21 protein extracted from starchinduced mycelia. In this process, one protein, AngCP, was detected to bind specifically to three regions covering -374 to -344, -484 to -414 and -580 to -540 relative to the glaA translational start codon. UV-crosslinking of DNA-protein complex showed that MW of AngCP was 10 ku. DNase I footprinting analysis demonstrated that AngCP specifically binds to two CCAAT containing sequences within the regions between -374 and -344 and -484 and -414 bp. And the region between -580 and -540 bp contains CCAAT similar box, CCTAT. The results indicated that AngCP is probably one of the members of CCAAT-binding protein families, which are generally involved in enhancement of gene expression in filamentous fungi. These findings suggested that AngCP should be a transcription activator for high-level expression of glaA gene. 
23512964	20130321	MBio	D016428 D052061 	The Listeria monocytogenes ChiA chitinase enhances virulence through suppression of host innate immunity.	Environmental pathogens survive and replicate within the outside environment while maintaining the capacity to infect mammalian hosts. For some microorganisms, mammalian infection may be a relatively rare event. Understanding how environmental pathogens retain their ability to cause disease may provide insight into environmental reservoirs of disease and emerging infections. Listeria monocytogenes survives as a saprophyte in soil but is capable of causing serious invasive disease in susceptible individuals. The bacterium secretes virulence factors that promote cell invasion, bacterial replication, and cell-to-cell spread. Recently, an L. monocytogenes chitinase (ChiA) was shown to enhance bacterial infection in mice. Given that mammals do not synthesize chitin, the function of ChiA within infected animals was not clear. Here we have demonstrated that ChiA enhances L. monocytogenes survival in vivo through the suppression of host innate immunity. L. monocytogenes ΔchiA mutants were fully capable of establishing bacterial replication within target organs during the first 48 h of infection. By 72 to 96 h postinfection, however, numbers of ΔchiA bacteria diminished, indicative of an effective immune response to contain infection. The ΔchiA-associated virulence defect could be complemented in trans by wild-type L. monocytogenes, suggesting that secreted ChiA altered a target that resulted in a more permissive host environment for bacterial replication. ChiA secretion resulted in a dramatic decrease in inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression, and ΔchiA mutant virulence was restored in NOS2(-/-) mice lacking iNOS. This work is the first to demonstrate modulation of a specific host innate immune response by a bacterial chitinase. Bacterial chitinases have traditionally been viewed as enzymes that either hydrolyze chitin as a food source or serve as a defense mechanism against organisms containing structural chitin (such as fungi). Recent evidence indicates that bacterial chitinases and chitin-binding proteins contribute to pathogenesis, primarily via bacterial adherence to chitin-like molecules present on the surface of mammalian cells. In contrast, mammalian chitinases have been linked to immunity via inflammatory immune responses that occur outside the context of infection, and since mammals do not produce chitin, the targets of these mammalian chitinases have remained elusive. This work demonstrates that a Listeria monocytogenes-secreted chitinase has distinct functional roles that include chitin hydrolysis and suppression of host innate immunity. The established link between chitinase and the inhibition of host inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression may help clarify the thus far elusive relationship observed between mammalian chitinase enzymes and host inflammatory responses occurring in the absence of infection. 
15266910	20040723	Indian_J._Exp._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Xylanase production by Ganoderma lucidum on liquid and solid state fermentation.	Ganoderma lucidum, a white rot fungus, was exploited for its potentials to produce xylanase employing shake and solid-state culture conditions. Different culture conditions such as pH, temperature, carbon and nitrogen requirements for its growth and production of xylanase were optimized. The culture media pH 6.0-7.0 and temperatures 30 degrees-35 degrees C significantly promoted the growth as well as xylanase secretion into the media. Xylan and peptone were found to be the suitable carbon and nitrogen sources. Among the different agrowastes used, wheat bran was found to be the best substrate for the test fungus for the production of xylanase than sugarcane bagasse and rice bran in solid-state fermentation. 
3329048	19860101	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	Trehalose and maltose metabolism in yeast transformed by a MAL4 regulatory gene cloned from a constitutive donor strain.	A 6.8 kb fragment of DNA containing the regulatory sequence MAL4p has been cloned from a genomic library prepared from Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain 1403-7A which ferments maltose constitutively. The library was prepared by ligation of 5-20 kb Sau3AI restriction fragments of total yeast DNA into the BamH1 restriction site of shuttle vector YEp13. A restriction map of the cloned fragment indicates that it encompasses a 2.6 kb segment which closely resembles the regulatory MAL6 gene previously identified (Needleman et al. 1984). The hybrid plasmid, p(MAL4p)4, could transform maltose-nonfermenting strains which contain cryptic alpha-glucosidase and maltose permease genes (malp MALg), but could not transform strains containing a functional regulatory sequence and a defective maltase-permease region (MAlp malg). A correlated absence of maltase and permease DNA from the cloned fragment was indicated by the restriction map. Although the cloned DNA fragment was derived from a constitutive strain, maltose fermentation and alpha-glucosidase formation by yeast transformed with p(MAL4p)4 was largely inducible by maltose and sensitive to catabolite repression. Moreover, the active trehalose accumulation pattern (TAC(+) phenotype) linked to the complete MAL4 locus in strain 1403-7A and other constitutive MAL strains (Oliveira et al. 1981b) was not found in p(MAL4p)4 transformants. It may be concluded that constitutivity of maltose fermentation and the associated active trehalose accumulation are not merely consequences of a cis-dominant mutation causing constitutive formation of the MALp regulatory product. Moreover, constitutivity may not be caused solely by a mutation within the structural region of the MALp gene. 
23100850	20121027	Indian_J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Fungal isolates from natural pectic substrates for polygalacturonase and multienzyme production.	Pectin rich wastes and waste dump yard soils were screened and eighty pectinolytic fungal isolates were obtained by enrichment culturing and ruthenium red plate assay. Eight isolates with higher zones of pectin hydrolysis were selected and tested for polygalacturonase production. One isolate identified as Aspergillus awamori MTCC 9166 with highest polygalacturonase activity was tested for utilization of raw pectins for enzyme production. Polygalacturonase production was high in raw pectin sources like Orange peel (16.8 U/ml) Jack fruit rind (38 U/ml) Carrot peel (36U/ml) and Beet root peel (24U/ml). Selected Aspergillus awamori MTCC 9166 was found to be having good polygalacturonase, xylanase, cellulase and weak amylase and protease activities. This isolate with multi-enzyme production could have application for enzymes production and degradation of fruit and vegetable waste in the process of urban waste disposal. 
3939312	19851101	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptional control of the sporulation-specific glucoamylase gene in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, glucoamylase activity appears specifically in sporulating cells heterozygous for the mating-type locus (MAT). We identified a sporulation-specific glucoamylase gene (SGA) and show that expression of SGA is positively regulated by the mating-type genes, both MATa1 and MAT alpha 2. Northern blot analysis revealed that control of SGA is exerted at the level of RNA production. Expression of SGA or the consequent degradation of glycogen to glucose in cells is not required for meiosis or sporulation, since MATa/MAT alpha diploid cells homozygous for an insertion mutation at SGA still formed four viable ascospores. 
22782269	20120712	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	High-level expression of a xylanase gene from the thermophilic fungus Paecilomyces thermophila in Pichia pastoris.	A xylanase gene from Paecilomyces thermophila was functionally expressed in Pichia pastoris. The recombinant xylanase (xynA) was predominantly extracellular; in a 5 l fermentor culture, the total extracellular protein was 8.1 g l(-1) with an activity of 52,940 U ml(-1). The enzyme was purified to homogeneity with a recovery of 48 %. The recombinant xynA was optimally active at 75 °C, as measured over 10 min, and at pH 7. The enzyme was stable up to 80 °C for 30 min. It hydrolyzed birchwood xylan, beechwood xylan and xylooligosaccharides to produce xylobiose and xylotriose as the main products. 
12968727	20030913	Indian_J_Environ_Health	D016428 	Decolourisation of textile and dye amended soils by fungi.	Four fungi viz. Aspergillus niger, Curvularia lunata, Fusarium oxysporum, Mucor mucedo isolated from textile and dye contaminated soils were tried for their efficiency in colour removal. The physical, chemical and biological characteristics were analysed and related to the process of decolourisation. The role of extracellular enzymes, alpha-amylase, protease, catalase and glucose oxidase was studied during 7, 14, and 21 days of incubation period. A. niger and M. mucedo were resistant in the soils and also efficient (92 percent) in decolourisation and in the enzyme production. C. lunata and F. oxysporum though occurred abundantly were not so successful in the process of colour removal or in enzyme secretions. 
28620	19780101	Zentralbl_Bakteriol_Naturwiss	D016428 D013487 	Utilization of industrial and agricultural by-products for fungal amylase production.	Attempts were made for using industrial and agricultural by-products and wastes as carbon and nitrogen sources in fermentation medium for alpha-amylase production by Aspergillus niger NRRL-337. The original carbon source of the basal medium was replaced by one of the following materials: rice bran, wheat bran, corn bran, corn starch, cane molasses, and glucose syrup. Rice bran proved to be the best carbon source that secured the highest amylase activity. The nitrogen source of the basal medium was then replaced by different cheap materials, viz: dried yeast, corn steep liquor, gluten-30, gluten-50, and corn steep precipitate. Corn steep precipitate proved to be superior in amylase production. In consideration of these results an economical medium that secured high activity, containing the following ingredients, was suggested: 2.5% corn steep precipitate, 7.2% rice bran, 0.1% MgSO4, 0.1% KH2PO4, and 0.1% CaCO3. From this medium fungal amylase was precipitated and purified. The pure enzyme gave the highest activity at 40 degrees C and pH 4.3. 
18355455	20080322	Clin._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 	Chitotriosidase activity in human milk from mothers of premature and full-term infants during the first month of lactation.	The objectives of the present study were to measure the activity of chitotriosidase (ChT) in human milk, to record changes in enzyme activity over time and to determine whether there are differences in activity between the milk of mothers of full-term (FT) and premature (PT) infants. Three samples were collected from each of 28 mothers (26.9+/-4.3 years of age; mean+/-SD) of FT infants (gestational age, 39.1+/-0.9 weeks; birth weight, 3384.8+/-369.8 g.; median, 3485 g) and 28 mothers (26.6+/-3.6 years of age) of healthy PT infants (gestational age, 30.5+/-3.1 weeks; birth weight, 1400+/-492.9 g.; median, 1285 g). Samples were collected at 3, 7 and 28th days after delivery. ChT activity was estimated using the fluorimetric method. ChT activities were calculated and expressed as nanomoles per milliliter per hour. ChT activity was higher in the PT group than in the FT group at day 3 [170.2 (14.0-294.8) vs. 81.7 (6.9-306.3) nmol/mL/h], day 7 [31.6 (0.0-166.7) vs. 17.2 (0.0-214.1) nmol/mL/h] and day 28 [5.5 (0.0-64.9) vs. 3.4 (0.0-51.6) nmol/mL/h]. The higher ChT activity in milk of mothers of PT infants than those of FT infants suggests the presence of activated macrophages as its main source. ChT is well known to play a role in defense against fungi and have the ability to degrade both colloidal chitin and chitin in the cell wall of Candida albicans. Thus, our findings may indicate that infants have a natural advantage for protection from fungus infections when they are fed by their mothers' milk. 
23802911	20130628	Plant_J.	D016428 D013485 	The role of FaBG3 in fruit ripening and B. cinerea fungal infection of strawberry.	In plants, β-glucosidases (BG) have been implicated in developmental and pathogen defense, and are thought to take part in abscisic acid (ABA) synthesis via hydrolysis of ABA glucose ester to release active ABA; however, there is no genetic evidence for the role of BG genes in ripening and biotic/abiotic stress in fruits. To clarify the role of BG genes in fruit, eight Fa/FvBG genes encoding β-glucosidase were isolated using information from the GenBank strawberry nucleotide database. Of the Fa/FvBG genes examined, expression of FaBG3 was the highest, showing peaks at the mature stage, coincident with the changes observed in ABA content. To verify the role of this gene, we suppressed the expression of FaBG3 via inoculation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing tobacco rattle virus carrying a FaBG3 fragment (RNAi). The expression of FaBG3 in FaBG3-RNAi-treated fruit was markedly reduced, and the ABA content was lower than that of the control. FaBG3-RNAi-treated fruit did not exhibit full ripening, and were firmer, had lower sugar content, and were pale compared with the control due to down-regulation of ripening-related genes. FaBG3-RNAi-treated fruit with reduced ABA levels were much more resistant to Botrytis cinerea fungus but were more sensitive to dehydration stress than control fruit. These results indicate that FaBG3 may play key roles in fruit ripening, dehydration stress and B. cinerea fungal infection in strawberries via modulation of ABA homeostasis and transcriptional regulation of ripening-related genes.  
23751979	20130612	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Impact of temperature stress and validamycin A on compatible solutes and fumonisin production in F. verticillioides: role of trehalose-6-phosphate synthase.	Fusarium verticillioides is a pathogen of maize that causes root, stalk and ear rot and produces fumonisins, toxic secondary metabolites associated with disease in livestock and humans. Environmental stresses such as heat and drought influence disease severity and toxin production, but the effects of abiotic stress on compatible solute production by F. verticillioides have not been fully characterized. We found that decreasing the growth temperature leads to a long-term reduction in polyol levels, whereas increasing the temperature leads to a transient increase in polyols. The effects of temperature shifts on trehalose levels are opposite the effects on polyols and more dramatic. Treatment with validamycin A, a trehalose analog with antifungal activity, leads to a rapid reduction in trehalose levels, despite its known role as a trehalase inhibitor. Mutant strains lacking TPS1, which encodes a putative trehalose-6-phosphate synthase, have altered growth characteristics, do not produce detectable amounts of trehalose under any condition tested, and accumulate glycogen at levels significantly higher than wild-type F. verticillioides. TPS1 mutants also produce significantly less fumonisin than wild type and are also less pathogenic than wild type on maize. These data link trehalose biosynthesis, secondary metabolism, and disease, and suggest that trehalose metabolic pathways may be a viable target for the control of Fusarium diseases and fumonisin contamination of maize.  
11055393	20001031	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of chitosanase and Exo-beta-D-glucosaminidase from a Koji mold, Aspergillus oryzae IAM2660.	Chitosan-degrading activity was detected in the culture fluid of Aspergillus oryzae, A. sojae, and A. flavus among various fungal strains belonging to the genus Aspergillus. One of the strong producers, A. oryzae IAM2660 had a higher level of chitosanolytic activity when N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) was used as a carbon source. Two chitosanolytic enzymes, 40 kDa and 135 kDa in molecular masses, were purified from the culture fluid of A. oryzae IAM2660. Viscosimetric assay and an analysis of reaction products by thin-layer chromatography clearly indicated the endo- and exo-type cleavage manner for the 40-kDa and 135-kDa enzymes, respectively. The 40-kDa enzyme, designated chitosanase, catalyzed a hydrolysis of glucosamine (GlcN) oligomers larger than pentamer, glycol chitosan, and chitosan with a low degree of acetylation (0-30%). The 135-kDa exo-beta-D-glucosaminidase,enzyme,named released a single GlcN residue from the GlcN oligomers and chitosan, but did not release GlcNAc residues from either GlcNAc oligomer or colloidal chitin. 
23040393	20121009	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Cellulosic ethanol production by combination of cellulase-displaying yeast cells.	As an effort to find suitable endoglucanases to generate cellulolytic yeast strains, two fungal endoglucanases, Thermoascus aurantiacus EGI and Trichoderma reesei EGII, and two bacterial endoglucanases, Clostridium thermocellum CelA and CelD, were expressed on the yeast surface, and their surface expression levels, pH- and temperature-dependent enzyme activities, and substrate specificities were analyzed. T. aurantiacus EGI showed similar patterns of pH- and temperature-dependent activities to those of T. reesei EGII which has been widely used due to its high enzyme activity. Although EGII showed higher carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) degradation activity than EGI, EGI showed better activity toward phosphoric acid swollen cellulose (PASC). For ethanol production from PASC, we combined three types of yeast cells, each displaying T. aurantiacus EGI, T. reesei CBHII (exoglucanase) and Aspergillus aculeatus BGLI (β-glucosidase), instead of co-expressing these enzymes in a single cell. In this system, ethanol production can be easily optimized by adjusting the combination ratio of each cell type. A mixture of cells with the optimized EGI:CBHII:BGLI ratio of 6:2:1 produced 1.3 fold more ethanol (2.1g/l) than cells composed of an equal amount of each cell type, suggesting the usefulness of this system for cellulosic ethanol production. 
1369079	19921101	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Deletion analysis of the Taka-amylase A gene promoter using a homologous transformation system in Aspergillus oryzae.	The Taka-amylase A gene (amyB) of Aspergillus oryzae is induced by starch or maltose. The molecular mechanism of the induction was investigated using a fusion of the amyB promoter and the Escherichia coli uidA gene encoding beta-glucuronidase (GUS). To identify the region responsible for high-level expression and regulation within the amyB promoter, a series of deletion promoters was constructed and introduced into the A. oryzae met locus by homologous recombination. Deletion of the region between -377 to -290 (the number indicates the distance in base pairs from the translation initiation point (+1) to the deletion end point) significantly reduced of the GUS activity, but slight reduction of the GUS activity was observed in deletions up to -377. Northern blot analysis showed that reduction of the GUS activity depended upon the expression level of the GUS gene. The region between -377 to -290 is suggested to include the sequence required directly for high-level expression and regulation of the amyB gene. 
21114504	20101201	FEMS_Microbiol._Ecol.	D016428 D013485 	Transformation of Quercus petraea litter: successive changes in litter chemistry are reflected in differential enzyme activity and changes in the microbial community composition.	The links among the changes in litter chemistry, the activity of extracellular enzymes and the microbial community composition were observed in Quercus petraea litter. Three phases of decomposition could be distinguished. In the early 4-month stage, with high activities of β-glucosidase, β-xylosidase and cellobiohydrolase, 16.4% of litter was decomposed. Hemicelluloses were rapidly removed while cellulose and lignin degradation was slow. In months 4-12, with high endocellulase and endoxylanase activities, decomposition of cellulose prevailed and 31.8% of litter mass was lost. After the third phase of decomposition until month 24 with high activity of ligninolytic enzymes, the litter mass loss reached 67.9%. After 2 years of decay, cellulose decomposition was almost complete and most of the remaining polysaccharides were in the form of hemicelluloses. Fungi largely dominated over bacteria as leaf endophytes and also in the litter immediately before contact with soil, and this fungal dominance lasted until month 4. Bacterial biomass (measured as phospholipid fatty acid content) in litter increased with time but also changed qualitatively, showing an increasing number of Actinobacteria. This paper shows that the dynamics of decomposition of individual litter components changes with time in accordance with the changes in the microbial community composition and its production of extracellular enzymes. 
15283239	20040731	Med._Mycol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning and characterization of a cDNA encoding the N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase homologue of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.	A cDNA encoding the N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) protein of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, Pb NAG1, was cloned and characterized. The 2663-nucleotide sequence of the cDNA consisted of a single open reading frame encoding a protein with a predicted molecular mass of 64.73 kDa and an isoeletric point of 6.35. The predicted protein includes a putative 30-amino-acid signal peptide. The protein as a whole shares considerable sequence similarity with 'classic' NAG. The primary sequence of Pb NAG1 was used to infer phylogenetic relationships. The amino acid sequence of Pb NAG1 has 45, 31 and 30% identity, respectively, with homologous sequences from Trichoderma harzianum, Aspergillus nidulans and Candida albicans. In particular, striking homology was observed with the active site regions of the glycosyl hydrolase group of proteins (family 20). The expected active site consensus motif G X D E and catalytic Asp and Glu residues at positions 373 and 374 were found, reinforcing that Pb NAG1 belongs to glycosyl hydrolase family 20. The nucleotide sequence of Pb nag1 and its flanking regions have been deposited, along with the amino acid sequence of the deduced protein, in GenBank under accession number AF419158. 
12092848	20020703	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Antifungal activity of rye (Secale cereale) seed chitinases: the different binding manner of class I and class II chitinases to the fungal cell walls.	The antifungal activities of rye seed chitinase-a (RSC-a, class I) and -c (RSC-c, class II) were studied in detail using two different bioassays with Trichoderma sp. as well as binding and degradation experiments with the cell walls prepared from its mycelia. RSC-a inhibited more strongly the re-extension of the hyphae, containing mainly mature cells, than RSC-c did. Upon incubation of the fungus with fluorescent chitinases, FITC-labeled RSC-a was found to be located in the hyphal tips, lateral walls, and septa, while FITC-labeled RSC-c was only in the hyphal tip. RSC-a had a greater affinity for the cell walls than RSC-c. RSC-a liberated a larger amount of reducing sugar from the cell walls than RSC-c did. These results inferred that RSC-a first binds to the lateral walls and septa, consisting of the mature cell walls, and degrades mature chitin fiber, while RSC-c binds only to the hyphal tip followed by degradation of only nascent chitin. As a result, RSC-a inhibited fungal growth more effectively than RSC-c. Furthermore, it was suggested that the chitin-binding domain in RSC-a assists the antifungal action of RSC-a by binding to the fungal hypha. 
10839146	20000606	J_Chromatogr_A	D016428 D016454 	Enantiomer separation of drugs by capillary electrophoresis using proteins as chiral selectors.	The separation of drug enantiomers using proteins as the chiral selectors in capillary electrophoresis (CE) is considered in this review. The proteins used include albumins such as bovine serum albumin, human serum albumin and serum albumins from other species, glycoproteins such as alpha1-acid glycoprotein, crude ovomucoid, ovoglycoprotein, avidin and riboflavin binding protein, enzymes such as fungal cellulase, cellobiohydrolase I, pepsin and lysozyme and other proteins such as casein, human serum transferrin and ovotransferrin. Protein-based CE is carried out in two modes: in one proteins are immobilized or adsorbed within the capillary, or protein-immobilized silica gels are packed into the capillary (affinity capillary electrochromatography mode), and in the other proteins are dissolved in the running buffer (affinity CE mode). Furthermore, the advantages and limitations of the two modes and the factors affecting the chiral separations of various drugs by protein-based CE are discussed. 
17664074	20070801	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Regulatory elements mediating expression of xylanase genes in Fusarium oxysporum.	The role of DNA regulatory elements mediating activation of the xylanase-encoding gene xyl4 by the transcription factor XlnR in the fungal pathogen Fusarium oxysporum, was studied by in vitro and in vivo functional analysis of the xyl4 promoter. Recombinant XlnR protein specifically bound the sequence GGCTAA in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Experiments with xyl4 promoter fusions with the lacZ reporter gene showed that the GGCTAA sequence is required for xylan-induced transcriptional activation of xyl4 in F. oxysporum. The results support a model in which the interaction between the transcriptional activator XlnR and an unknown constitutive repressor regulates xylanase gene expression in F. oxysporum. 
12492858	20021221	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Mss11p is a transcription factor regulating pseudohyphal differentiation, invasive growth and starch metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae in response to nutrient availability.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the cell surface protein, Muc1p, was shown to be critical for invasive growth and pseudohyphal differentiation. The transcription of MUC1 and of the co-regulated STA2 glucoamylase gene is controlled by the interplay of a multitude of regulators, including Ste12p, Tec1p, Flo8p, Msn1p and Mss11p. Genetic analysis suggests that Mss11p plays an essential role in this regulatory process and that it functions at the convergence of at least two signalling cascades, the filamentous growth MAPK cascade and the cAMP-PKA pathway. Despite this central role in the control of filamentous growth and starch metabolism, the exact molecular function of Mss11p is unknown. We subjected Mss11p to a detailed molecular analysis and report here on its role in transcriptional regulation, as well as on the identification of specific domains required to confer transcriptional activation in response to nutritional signals. We show that Mss11p contains two independent transactivation domains, one of which is a highly conserved sequence that is found in several proteins with unidentified function in mammalian and invertebrate organisms. We also identify conserved amino acids that are required for the activation function. 
20675124	20100803	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 	Production of lignocellulolytic enzymes and enhancement of in vitro digestibility during solid state fermentation of wheat straw by Phlebia floridensis.	Degradation by white rot fungi has the potential to increase digestibility of wheat straw and thus improve its value as animal feed. To optimize conditions for production of lignocellulolytic enzymes by Phlebia floridensis during solid state fermentation of wheat straw along with enhancement of in vitro digestibility, a response surface methodology (RSM) based experiment was designed. Effect of moisture content, inorganic nitrogen source (NH(4)Cl) and malt extract on lignocellulolytic enzymes, changes in chemical constituents and digestibility of wheat straw was evaluated. With increase in moisture content, laccase production increased up to 34-fold, while Manganese peroxidase was optimally produced in the presence of almost equal amount (50-55 mg/g of WS) of NH(4)Cl and malt extract. These supplements also significantly (p<0.05) enhanced the production of CMCase and xylanase. In vitro digestibility was increased by almost 50% with a loss of 27.6% and 14.6% in lignin and total organic matter, respectively. The present findings revealed P. floridensis to be an efficient organism for lignocellulolytic enzymes production and simultaneous enhancement in in vitro digestibility of wheat straw. 
16670026	20060504	Proteome_Sci	D016428 	High-throughput screening of cellulase F mutants from multiplexed plasmid sets using an automated plate assay on a functional proteomic robotic workcell.	The field of plasmid-based functional proteomics requires the rapid assay of proteins expressed from plasmid libraries. Automation is essential since large sets of mutant open reading frames are being cloned for evaluation. To date no integrated automated platform is available to carry out the entire process including production of plasmid libraries, expression of cloned genes, and functional testing of expressed proteins. We used a functional proteomic assay in a multiplexed setting on an integrated plasmid-based robotic workcell for high-throughput screening of mutants of cellulase F, an endoglucanase from the anaerobic fungus Orpinomyces PC-2. This allowed us to identify plasmids containing optimized clones expressing mutants with improved activity at lower pH. A plasmid library of mutagenized clones of the celF gene with targeted variations in the last four codons was constructed by site-directed PCR mutagenesis and transformed into Escherichia coli. A robotic picker integrated into the workcell was used to inoculate medium in a 96-well deep well plate, combining the transformants into a multiplexed set in each well, and the plate was incubated on the workcell. Plasmids were prepared from the multiplexed culture on the liquid handler component of the workcell and used for in vitro transcription/translation. The multiplexed expressed recombinant proteins were screened for improved activity and stability in an azo-carboxymethylcellulose plate assay. The multiplexed wells containing mutants with improved activity were identified and linked back to the corresponding multiplexed cultures stored in glycerol. Spread plates were prepared from the glycerol stocks and the workcell was used to pick single colonies from the spread plates, prepare plasmid, produce recombinant protein, and assay for activity. The screening assay and subsequent deconvolution of the multiplexed wells resulted in identification of improved CelF mutants and corresponding optimized clones in expression-ready plasmids. The multiplex method using an integrated automated platform for high-throughput screening in a functional proteomic assay allows rapid identification of plasmids containing optimized clones ready for use in subsequent applications including transformations to produce improved strains or cell lines. 
2503710	19890601	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013487 	Structure and regulation of KGD1, the structural gene for yeast alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase.	Nuclear respiratory-defective mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae have been screened for lesions in the mitochondrial alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. Strains assigned to complementation group G70 were ascertained to be deficient in enzyme activity due to mutations in the KGD1 gene coding for the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase component of the complex. The KGD1 gene has been cloned by transformation of a representative kgd1 mutant, C225/U1, with a recombinant plasmid library of wild-type yeast nuclear DNA. Transformants containing the gene on a multicopy plasmid had three- to four-times-higher alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activity than did wild-type S. cerevisiae. Substitution of the chromosomal copy of KGD1 with a disrupted allele (kgd1::URA3) induced a deficiency in alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase. The sequence of the cloned region of DNA which complements kgd1 mutants was found to have an open reading frame of 3,042 nucleotides capable of coding for a protein of Mw 114,470. The encoded protein had 38% identical residues with the reported sequence of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase from Escherichia coli. Two lines of evidence indicated that transcription of KGD1 is catabolite repressed. Higher steady-state levels of KGD1 mRNA were detected in wild-type yeast grown on the nonrepressible sugar galactose than in yeast grown on high glucose. Regulation of KGD1 was also studied by fusing different 5'-flanking regions of KGD1 to the lacZ gene of E. coli and measuring the expression of beta-galactosidase in yeast. Transformants harboring a fusion of 693 nucleotides of the 5'-flanking sequence expressed 10 times more beta-galactosidase activity when grown under derepressed conditions. The response to the carbon source was reduced dramatically when the same lacZ fusion was present in a hap2 or hap3 mutant. The promoter element(s) responsible for the regulated expression of KGD1 has been mapped to the -354 to -143 region. This region contained several putative activation sites with sequences matching the core element proposed to be essential for binding of the HAP2 and HAP3 regulatory proteins. 
16243363	20051026	Mar._Pollut._Bull.	D016428 D013485 	Occurrence of estrogen-like substances in the marine environment of the Northern Mediterranean Sea.	Evidence has been presented that a number of environmental agents perturbs the function of the sex hormone signalling pathways in marine animals. In this work the estrogenic/antiestrogenic activity of coastal marine water samples from five sites of the Northern Mediterranean Sea was assayed using a recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast strain (RMY326 ER-ERE) transfected with the human estrogen receptor alpha. Extraction of potential EDCs from seawater was performed in columns packed with XAD-2 resins. The estrogenic activity was calculated as percentage of the activity of 17beta-estradiol (10 nM) and it ranged from 4.8% and 59.03%, significantly depending on sampling site (p=0.0013) and season (p<0.05). Antagonistic activity of extracts was also detected and the percentage of inhibition of estradiol-dependent beta-galactosidase induction ranged to 52.8%. These results point the reliability of the yeast assay as a first level screening test to assess the quality of aquatic environments. 
14980547	20040226	Transfus_Clin_Biol	D016428 D016454 	Universal red blood cells--enzymatic conversion of blood group A and B antigens.	Accidental transfusion of ABO-incompatible red blood cells (RBCs) is a leading cause of fatal transfusion reactions. To prevent this and to create a universal blood supply, the idea of converting blood group A and B antigens to H using specific exo-glycosidases capable of removing the immunodominant sugar residues was pioneered by Goldstein and colleagues at the New York Blood Center in the early 1980s. Conversion of group B RBCs to O was initially carried out with alpha-galactosidase extracted from coffee beans. These enzyme-converted O (ECO) RBCs appeared to survive normally in all recipients independent of blood group. The clinical trials moved from small infusions to single RBC units and finally multiple and repeated transfusions. A successful phase II trial utilizing recombinant enzyme was reported by Kruskall and colleagues in 2000. Enzymatic conversion of group A RBCs has lagged behind due to lack of appropriate glycosidases and the more complex nature of A antigens. Identification of novel bacterial glycosidases with improved kinetic properties and specificities for the A and B antigens has greatly advanced the field. Conversion of group A RBCs can be achieved with improved glycosidases and the conversion conditions for both A and B antigens optimized to use more cost-efficient quantities of enzymes and gentler conditions including neutral pH and short incubation times at room temperature. Of the different strategies envisioned to create a universal blood supply, the ECO concept is the only one, for which human clinical trials have been performed. This paper discusses some biochemical and clinical aspects of this developing technology. 
22409979	20120314	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Sequential solid-state and submerged cultivation of Aspergillus niger on sugarcane bagasse for the production of cellulase.	Sequential solid-state and submerged cultivation with sugarcane bagasse as substrate for cellulase production by Aspergillus niger A12 was assessed by measuring endoglucanase activity. An unconventional pre-culture with an initial fungal growth phase under solid-state cultivation was followed by a transition to submerged fermentation by adding the liquid culture medium to the mycelium grown on solid substrate. For comparison, control experiments were conducted using conventional submerged cultivation. The cultures were carried out in shake flasks and in a 5-L bubble column bioreactor. An endoglucanase productivity of 57 ± 13 IU/L/h was achieved in bubble column cultivations prepared using the new method, representing an approximately 3-fold improvement compared to conventional submerged fermentation. Therefore, the methodology proposed here of a sequential fermentation process offers a promising alternative for cellulase production. 
23988521	20130831	J._Environ._Manage.	D023362 D016428 	Improvement of methane generation capacity by aerobic pre-treatment of organic waste with a cellulolytic Trichoderma viride culture.	Trichoderma viride is known as a potent cellulose decomposer and was successfully used to improve and accelerate the decomposition process of aerobic composting. In contrast, the role of fungi as pre-treatment organisms for anaerobic digestion is not clear, since the fast aerobic decomposition is thought to be responsible for a rapid depletion of easily available nutrients, leading to a lack of these for the anaerobic community. In the present study carried out in lab-scale, the application of T. viride for the aerobic pre-incubation of organic matter derived from the inlet port of a 750,000 L anaerobic digester led to an increase in total gas and methane production in a subsequent anaerobic digestion step. A high cellulase activity caused by the addition of T. viride seemed to be responsible for a better nutrient availability for anaerobic microorganisms. Therefore, aerobic pre-incubation of organic residues with T. viride for subsequent anaerobic digestion is a promising approach in order to increase methane yields.  
10905427	20000725	Curr._Genet.	D016428 	Identification of functional elements that regulate the glucoamylase-encoding gene (glaB) expressed in solid-state culture of Aspergillus oryzae.	Aspergillus oryzae has-two glucoamylase-encoding genes, glaA and glaB, whose expressions are distinguished by the type of culture used. The glaB gene is markedly expressed in solid-state culture but is little expressed in submerged culture. In solid-state culture, glaB expression at the transcriptional level is enhanced by low-Aw (water activity), high-temperature, and physical barriers to hyphal extension, as well as by starch. To determine the cis-acting factors in the glaB promoter, deletion analysis of the promoter was done with GUS (beta-glucuronidase) as the reporter. Deletion of the 27 bp from -350 to -324 (Region A) in 1.1 kb of the glaB promoter completely abolished starch, low-Aw, and high-temperature induction. Substitution of the 12-bp GC-rich motif from -335 to -324 (GC-box) resulted in significant loss of starch and low-Aw inductivities. These findings suggest that the GC-box is a cis-element essential for the high-level expression of glaB in solid-state culture. 
24128930	20131017	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Trichoderma reesei CE16 acetyl esterase and its role in enzymatic degradation of acetylated hemicellulose.	Trichoderma reesei CE16 acetyl esterase (AcE) is a component of the plant cell wall degrading system of the fungus. The enzyme behaves as an exo-acting deacetylase removing acetyl groups from non-reducing end sugar residues. In this work we demonstrate this exo-deacetylating activity on natural acetylated xylooligosaccharides using MALDI ToF MS. The combined action of GH10 xylanase and acetylxylan esterases (AcXEs) leads to formation of neutral and acidic xylooligosaccharides with a few resistant acetyl groups mainly at their non-reducing ends. We show here that these acetyl groups serve as targets for TrCE16 AcE. The most prominent target is the 3-O-acetyl group at the non-reducing terminal Xylp residues of linear neutral xylooligosaccharides or on aldouronic acids carrying MeGlcA at the non-reducing terminus. Deacetylation of the non-reducing end sugar may involve migration of acetyl groups to position 4, which also serves as substrate of the TrCE16 esterase. Concerted action of CtGH10 xylanase, an AcXE and TrCE16 AcE resulted in close to complete deacetylation of neutral xylooligosaccharides, whereas substitution with MeGlcA prevents removal of acetyl groups from only a small fraction of the aldouronic acids. Experiments with diacetyl derivatives of methyl β-d-xylopyranoside confirmed that the best substrate of TrCE16 AcE is 3-O-acetylated Xylp residue followed by 4-O-acetylated Xylp residue with a free vicinal hydroxyl group. This study shows that CE16 acetyl esterases are crucial enzymes to achieve complete deacetylation and, consequently, complete the saccharification of acetylated xylans by xylanases, which is an important task of current biotechnology. 
21972816	20111007	Plant_Biol_(Stuttg)	D016428 D013485 	Phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate is associated to extracellular lipoproteic fractions and is detected in tomato apoplastic fluids.	We have recently detected phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PI4P) in the extracellular medium of tomato cell suspensions. Extracellular PI4P was shown to trigger the activation of defence responses induced by the fungal elicitor xylanase. In this study, by applying a differential centrifugation technique, we found that extracellular PI4P is associated with fractions composed of diverse phospholipids and proteins, which were pelleted from the extracellular medium of tomato cell suspensions grown under basal conditions. Using mass spectrometry, we identified the proteins present in these pelleted fractions. Most of these proteins have previously been characterised as having a role in defence responses. Next, we evaluated whether PI4P could also be detected in an entire plant system. For this, apoplastic fluids of tomato plants grown under basal conditions were analysed using a lipid overlay assay. Interestingly, PI4P could be detected in intercellular fluids obtained from tomato leaflets and xylem sap of tomato plants. By employing electrospray ionisation tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS), other phospholipids were also found in intercellular fluids of tomato plants. These had a markedly different profile from the phospholipid pattern identified in entire leaflets. Based on these results, the potential role of extracellular phospholipids in plant intercellular communication is discussed. 
20567818	20100623	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Recombinant production of an Aspergillus nidulans class I hydrophobin (DewA) in Hypocrea jecorina (Trichoderma reesei) is promoter-dependent.	Fungal hydrophobins have potential for several applications because of their abilities to change the hydrophobicity of different surfaces. Yet because of their tendency for aggregation and attachment to interfacial areas only few production processes have so far been reported. Towards the development of a heterologous production system, we report here the expression of a class I hydrophobin DewA of Aspergillus nidulans in Hypocrea jecorina (Trichoderma reesei). Using the H. jecorina hfb2 (class II hydrophobin-encoding) promoter and lactose as a carbon source, only a minor fraction of the DewA remained cell-wall-bound and the majority of it secreted into the medium with up to 15% of the total secreted protein. N-terminal amino acid sequencing showed that it was correctly processed. In contrast, no DewA was produced under the cel7A (cellobiohydrolase I) promoter, although its mRNA was abundantly detected in the cells. This lack of secretion is not due to trapping in the cell wall or to its degradation because of the unfolded protein response. Recombinant DewA could be conveniently precipitated from the culture filtrate, and its bioactivity proven by its ability to stably bind to hydrophilic and hydrophobic surfaces (glass and Teflon, respectively). We thus consider H. jecorina as a promising host for further optimization of DewA production. 
11060038	20001104	EMBO_J.	D016428 D013487 	Tup1p represses Mcm1p transcriptional activation and chromatin remodeling of an a-cell-specific gene.	In yeast, a number of regulatory proteins expressed only in specific cell types interact with general transcription factors in a combinatorial manner to control expression of cell-type-specific genes. We report a detailed analysis of activation and repression events that occur at the promoter of the a-cell-specific STE6 gene fused to a beta-galactosidase gene in a yeast minichromosome, as well as factors that control the chromatin structure of this promoter both in the minichromosome and in the genomic STE6 locus. Mcm1p results in chromatin remodeling and is responsible for all transcriptional activity from the STE6 promoter in both wild-type a and alpha cells. Matalpha2p cooperates with Tup1p to block both chromatin remodeling and Mcm1p-associated activation. While Matalpha2p represses only Mcm1p, the Tup1p-mediated repression involves both Mcm1p-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Swi/Snf and Gcn5p, required for full induction of the STE6 gene, do not contribute to chromatin remodeling. We suggest that Tup1p can contribute to repression by blocking transcriptional activators, in addition to interacting with transcription machinery and stabilizing chromatin. 
6774215	19800701	Mikrobiologiia	D004740 D016428 	[Carbohydrates of the medium and the nature of ontogeny in Aspergillus awamori in relation to glucoamylase biosynthesis].	The biological rhythm of the transition from the processes of blocking and nuclear division to active RNA biosynthesis and growth in submerged culture of Aspergillus awamori producing glucoamylase was studied by the technique of quantitative cytochemistry, and was characterized by distinct daily oscillation in a medium with starch. The rhythm was disturbed when other carbon sources, viz. maltose, sucrose and particularly glucose, were used: the rhythm became longer and uneven, the rate of nuclear blocking decreased, and the de novo formation of the mycelium of the adaptive stage capable of producing glucoamylase was inhibited. As we have shown earlier, such rhythms in fungi are induced at the level of nuclear processes; in this study, they were most affected by the disturbances which led to the inhibition of the enzyme production. It is quite possible therefore that the processes of biochemical adaptation in fungal ontogenesis, particulaly the production of hydrolytic enzymes, are regulated at the molecular-biological level in the initiation of their synthesis rather than at the level of competition between the existing pathways of general metabolism, and are closely related to biorhythms. 
22142722	20111207	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning of novel cellulases from cellulolytic fungi: heterologous expression of a family 5 glycoside hydrolase from Trametes versicolor in Pichia pastoris.	Total cDNA isolated from cellulolytic fungi cultured in cellulose was examined for the presence of sequences encoding for endoglucanases. Novel sequences encoding for glycoside hydrolases (GHs) were identified in Fusarium oxysporum, Ganoderma applanatum and Trametes versicolor. The cDNA encoding for partial sequences of GH family 61 cellulases from F. oxysporum and G. applanatum shares 58 and 68% identity with endoglucanases from Glomerella graminicola and Laccaria bicolor, respectively. A new GH family 5 endoglucanase from T. versicolor was also identified. The cDNA encoding for the mature protein was completely sequenced. This enzyme shares 96% identity with Trametes hirsuta endoglucanase and 22% with Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase II (EGII). The enzyme, named TvEG, has N-terminal family 1 carbohydrate binding module (CBM1). The full length cDNA was cloned into the pPICZαB vector and expressed as an active, extracellular enzyme in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. Preliminary studies suggest that T. versicolor could be useful for lignocellulose degradation. 
3084051	19860101	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Secretion of alpha-amylase and multiple forms of glucoamylase by the yeast Trichosporon pullulans.	Trichosporon pullulans IGC 3488 produced extracellular alpha-amylase and glucoamylase activities when grown in batches in a medium containing corn steep liquor and soluble starch or corn starch. alpha-Amylase, unlike glucoamylase activity, was secreted biphasically. For both amylases the maximum concentration was found in stationary phase cultures. The amylolytic enzymes, previously concentrated by ammonium sulfate precipitation, were separated into a glucoamylase fraction and an alpha-amylase fraction by Ultrogel AcA 54 gel filtration. Pullulanase activity was located in the glucoamylase fraction, whereas cyclodextrinase activity was restricted to the alpha-amylase fraction. Isoamylase and alpha-glucosidase were not detected. Electrophoretic analysis showed that alpha-amylase activity was due to a single protein. Glucoamylase, however, occurred in multiple forms. The four glucoamylases and the alpha-amylase were glycoproteins. 
18694928	20080813	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D052060 D013485 	Assembly of the yeast cell wall. Crh1p and Crh2p act as transglycosylases in vivo and in vitro.	The cross-linking of polysaccharides to assemble new cell wall in fungi requires mechanisms by which a preexisting linkage is broken for each new one made, to allow for the absence of free energy sources outside the plasma membrane. Previous work showed that Crh1p and Crh2p, putative transglycosylases, are required for the linkage of chitin to beta(1-3)glucose branches of beta(1-6)glucan in the cell wall of budding yeast. To explore the linking reaction in vivo and in vitro, we used fluorescent sulforhodamine-linked laminari-oligosaccharides as artificial chitin acceptors. In vivo, fluorescence was detected in bud scars and at a lower level in the cell contour, both being dependent on the CRH genes. The linking reaction was also shown in digitonin-permeabilized cells, with UDP-N-acetylglucosamine as the substrate for nascent chitin production. Both the nucleotide and the Crh proteins were required here. A gas1 mutant that overexpresses Crh1p showed very high fluorescence both in intact and permeabilized cells. In the latter, fluorescence was still incorporated in patches in the absence of UDP-GlcNAc. Isolated cell walls of this strain, when incubated with sulforhodamine-oligosaccharide, also showed Crhp-dependent fluorescence in patches, which were identified as bud scars. In all three systems, binding of the fluorescent material to chitin was verified by chitinase digestion. Moreover, the cell wall reaction was inhibited by chitooligosaccharides. These results demonstrate that the Crh proteins act by transferring chitin chains to beta(1-6)glucan, with a newly observed high activity in the bud scar. The importance of transglycosylation for cell wall assembly is thus firmly established. 
21279512	20110201	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation of cellulolytic fungi from waste of castor (Ricinus communis L.).	This is the first report of isolation of fungi present in fatty and defatted castor bean meal as well as the first of crop's selection to test the cellulolytic potential, in order to verify the diversity and potential of cellulolytic fungi in castor bean waste (Ricinus communis L.). For the screening on solid medium, it was used carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) as the sole carbon source. The microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel) was used as a substrate for submerged fermentation for production of cellobiohydrolase (FPase) and the CMC to produce endoglucanases (CMCase) and β-glycosidases (BG). 189 cultures of fungi were isolated, including 40 species of filamentous fungi and three yeasts. The Aspergillus was the most frequent found genus. Regarding the distribution of isolated species from defatted castor bean meal, the A. niger was the most frequent one; and within the fatty castor bean meal, the Emericela variecolor prevailed among other species. Among the 67 fungal cultures tested in the initial screening on solid media to assess the cellulolytic potential, 54 disclosed Cellulolytic Index (CI) ranging from 1.04 to 6.00 mm. The isolates were selected for enzyme production in liquid medium with values above 2.0 CI. They were obtained with A. japonicus URM5620 FPase activity (4.99 U/ml) and BG (0.05 U/ml), and Rhodotorula glutinis URM5724 activity of CMCase 3.58 U/ml. These cases occurred after 168 h of submersion for both species of fungi. In our study, we could conclude that the castor bean is a promising source of fungi capable of producing cellulolytic enzymes. 
9430631	19980228	EMBO_J.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Cell wall 1,6-beta-glucan synthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae depends on ER glucosidases I and II, and the molecular chaperone BiP/Kar2p.	The role of glucose trimming in the endoplasmic reticulum of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was investigated using glucosidase inhibitors and mutant strains devoid of glucosidases I and II. These glucosidases are responsible for removing glucose residues from the N-linked core oligosaccharides attached to newly synthesized polypeptide chains. In mammalian cells they participate together with calnexin, calreticulin and UDP-glucose:glycoprotein glucosyltransferase in the folding and quality control of newly synthesized glycoproteins. In S.cerevisiae, glucosidase II is encoded by the GLS2 gene, and glucosidase I, as suggested here, by the CWH41 gene. Using castanospermine (an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor) and yeast strains defective in glucosidase I, glucosidase II and BiP/Kar2p, it was demonstrated that cell wall synthesis depends on the two glucosidases and BiP/Kar2p. In double mutants with defects in both BiP/Kar2p and either of the glucosidases the phenotype was particularly clear: synthesis of 1,6-beta-glucan_a cell wall component_was reduced; the cell wall displayed abnormal morphology; the cells aggregated; and their growth was severely inhibited. No defects in protein folding or secretion could be detected. We concluded that glucose trimming in S.cerevisiae is necessary for proper cell wall synthesis, and that the glucosidases function synergistically with BiP/Kar2p in this process. 
8349103	19930701	Genetics	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and characterization of SGE1: a yeast gene that partially suppresses the gal11 mutation in multiple copies.	Recessive mutations of GAL11 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cause pleiotropic defects that include weak fermentation of galactose, alpha-specific sterility and slow growth on nonfermentable carbon sources. Recent experiments suggest that Gal11P functions as a "co-activator" that links transcriptional activators, such as Gal4p and Grf1p/Rap1p/Tuf1p, with the basic transcription machinery. In the present experiments we isolated a gene, SGE1, that suppresses gal11 for growth on ethidium bromide/galactose agar when the gene was present in two or more copies. The other gal11 phenotypes were not suppressed by SGE1 in the multiple-copy state. Multiple copies of SGE1 increased expression of galactose-inducible genes in gal11 yeast, presumably at the level of transcription. When SGE1 was disrupted in wild-type yeast, the expression of galactose-inducible genes decreased to 50-60% of the wild-type level, presumably due to effect on transcription. Complete DNA sequence analysis revealed that SGE1 encodes a predicted protein of 543 amino acids. SGE1-specific mRNA of 1.8 kilonucleotides was detected by Northern analysis along the direction of the open reading frame. The gene mapped near RAD56, at the right end of chromosome 16. 
1731976	19920101	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Structure of a rice beta-glucanase gene regulated by ethylene, cytokinin, wounding, salicylic acid and fungal elicitors.	A rice beta-glucanase gene was sequenced and its expression analyzed at the level of mRNA accumulation. This gene (Gns1) is expressed at relatively low levels in germinating seeds, shoots, leaves, panicles and callus, but it is expressed at higher levels in roots. Expression in the roots appears to be constitutive. Shoots express Gns1 at much higher levels when treated with ethylene, cytokinin, salicylic acid, and fungal elicitors derived from the pathogen Sclerotium oryzae or from the non-pathogen Saccharomyces cereviseae. Shoots also express Gns1 at higher levels in response to wounding. Expression in the shoots is not significantly affected by auxin, gibberellic acid or abscisic acid. The beta-glucanase shows 82% amino acid similarity to the barley 1,3;1,4-beta-D-glucanases, and from hybridization studies it is the beta-glucanase gene in the rice genome closest to the barley 1,3;1,4-beta-glucanase EI gene. The mature peptide has a calculated molecular mass of 32 kDa. The gene has a large 3145 bp intron in the codon for the 25th amino acid of the signal peptide. The gene exhibits a very strong codon bias of 99% G + C in the third position of the codon in the mature peptide coding region, but only 61% G + C in the signal peptide region. 
15025429	20040318	Scand._J._Clin._Lab._Invest.	D016428 	Serum levels of chitotriosidase as a marker of disease activity and clinical stage in sarcoidosis.	Sarcoidosis is a systemic granulomatous disease characterized by T-lymphocyte activation and lymphocyte migration into involved organs, usually the lungs. The amounts of a number of biochemical markers, such as angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity, increase in the serum of patients with sarcoidosis. Chitotriosidase is an enzyme secreted by activated macrophages able to catalyze the hydrolysis of both chitin and chitin-like substrates. Chitotriosidase is involved in defense against, and in degradation of chitin-containing pathogens such as fungi, nematodes, and insects. Forty-three patients affected by chronic sarcoidosis, in active (23 patients) or inactive (20 patients) phase, were studied. Serum levels of chitotriosidase and ACE activity were evaluated and compared with those of 32 healthy subjects. Serum chitotriosidase concentration and ACE activity were also correlated with radiographic stage of disease. Individuals with chronic sarcoidosis have higher serum chitotriosidase concentrations and ACE activity than those of normal subjects. Sarcoidosis patients in the active phase of the disease had significantly higher chitotriosidase and ACE levels than those in the inactive phase. In contrast to serum ACE activity, a significant relationship between serum levels of chitotriosidase and the four radiographic stages of the disease was observed. Although the data need to be validated by further investigation, the observations made in this study seem to indicate that serum chitotriosidase concentrations may be a useful marker for monitoring sarcoidosis disease activity and prognosis. 
8368488	19930701	Anal._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	A dependable method for the synthesis of [14C]trehalose.	A new method for the preparation of [14C]trehalose was developed, based on the ability of yeast cells to accumulate trehalose under stress. The method is simple and reliable. It utilizes a yeast strain in which the gene that encodes for phosphoglucoisomerase has been deleted. Thus, exogenously supplied glucose is not metabolized, but is instead converted to trehalose. The [14C]-trehalose obtained is pure, it is hydrolyzed by trehalase, and it is not susceptible to the action of alpha-glucosidase. The yield of this method is in the order of 35% of the [14C]glucose supplied. 
19519976	20090613	Bull._Entomol._Res.	D016428 	Effects of Artemisia annua L. (Asteracea) on the digestive enzymatic profiles and the cellular immune reactions of the Sunn pest, Eurygaster integriceps (Heteroptera: Scutellaridae), against Beauveria bassiana.	Plant extracts are currently studied more and more because of the possibility of their usage in plant protection. Many of the natural plant compounds which are used in the control of pests are known to affect the digestion and immune functions of insects. In this study, effects of Artemisia annua extract on the digestive enzymatic profiles and the cellular immune reactions of Eurygaster integriceps were investigated to reach a better understanding of its role in the control of this pest as the most destructive one in the production of wheat in the Near and Middle East, eastern and southern Europe and North Africa. Feeding and injection methods were used to study the plant extract effects on digestive enzymes and cellular immunity, respectively. When adult E. integriceps fed on food and water containing plant extracts, activity of the digestive enzymes, including alpha-amylase, alpha- and beta-glucosidases, protease and lipase, in addition to cellular immune reactions (total and differentiate hemocyte numbers, phagocytosis, nodule formation and phenoloxidase activity) against Beauveria bassiana were affected and significantly decreased in comparison with controls, in that the clear dose-response relationships were established with respect to enzyme activities and immune reactions. A. annua extract had a significant effect on kinetic parameters (Vmax and Km) of digestive enzymes and phenoloxidase activity so that the presence of the plant extract decreased the value of Vmax and increased Km, causing the reduction of enzyme affinity to the substrate, overall velocity of the reaction and finally interfering with the rate of breakdown of the enzyme-substrate complex. The understanding of fungal-induced immune responses and identification of factors regarding fungal virulence could be important in accelerating host death in a biological control scenario. Hence, the combination of botanical pesticides and microbes to control insect pest populations would be a safe and possibly rapid method to decrease their damage and environmental risk due to the use of chemical pesticides. 
23020548	20121002	J_Phys_Chem_B	D016428 D052061 	Chloroperoxidase-catalyzed epoxidation of cis-β-methylstyrene: distal pocket flexibility tunes catalytic reactivity.	Chloroperoxidase, the most versatile heme protein, has a hybrid active site pocket that shares structural features with peroxidases and cytochrome P450s. The simulation studies presented here show that the enzyme possesses a remarkable ability to efficiently utilize its hybrid structure, assuming structurally different peroxidase-like and P450-like distal pocket faces and thereby enhancing the inherent catalytic capability of the active center. We find that, during epoxidation of cis-β-methylstyrene (CBMS), the native peroxidase-like aspect of the distal pocket is diminished as the polar Glu183 side chain is displaced away from the active center and the distal pocket takes on a more hydrophobic, P450-like, aspect. The P450-like distal pocket provides a significant enthalpic stabilization of ∼4 kcal/mol of the 14 kcal/mol reaction barrier for gas-phase epoxidation of CMBS by an oxyferryl heme-thiolate species. This stabilization comes from breathing of the distal pocket. As until recently the active site of chloroperoxidase was postulated to be inflexible, these results suggest a new conceptual understanding of the enzyme's versatility: catalytic reactivity is tuned by flexibility of the distal pocket. 
17318531	20070224	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 D016454 	Extracellular enzymes and the pathogenesis of nematophagous fungi.	Nematophagous fungi are an important group of soil microorganisms that can suppress the populations of plant-parasitic nematodes. The pathogenic mechanisms of nematophagous fungi are diverse: They can be parasitical-mechanical through producing specialized capturing devices, or toxin-dependent. During infections, a variety of virulence factors may be involved against nematodes by nematophagous fungi. In this review, we present up-to-date information on the modes of infection by nematophagous fungi. The roles of extracellular hydrolytic enzymes and other virulence factors involved in infection against nematodes were summarized. The biochemical properties and peptide sequences of a special group of enzymes, the serine proteases, were compared, and their implications in infections were discussed. We also discussed the impact of emerging new techniques on our understanding of this unique group of fungi. 
23361183	20130131	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and characterization of a thermostable endo-arabinanase from Phanerochaete chrysosporium and its synergistic action with endo-xylanase.	Putative arabinanase (PcARA) was cloned from cDNA of Phanerochaete chrysosporium. The gene sequencing indicated that PcARA consisted of 939 nucleotides that encodes for 312 amino acid arabinanase-polypeptide chain, including a signal peptide of 19 amino acids. Three-dimensional homology indicated that this enzyme is a five-bladed β-propeller, belonging to glycosidase family 43 and its secondary structure is consisted of 24 β-sheets. The PcARA-cDNA was expressed in Pichia pastoris using pPICZαC. SDS-PAGE of purified arabinanase showed a single band of 33 kDa that is very close to theoretical molecular mass of 33.9 kDa calculated by its amino acid content. Recombinant arabinanase (rPcARA) exhibited maximum activity at pH and temperature of 5.0 and 60 °C, respectively. End-product analysis of debranched arabinan hydrolysis by thin-layer chromatography indicated that rPcARA acted as endo-type. The synergistic action of rPcARA with recombinant xylanase resulted in 72 and 9.3 % release of total soluble sugar of arabinoxylan and NaOH-pretreated barley straw, respectively. 
15193129	20040615	Biochemistry_Mosc.	D016428 	Cellulase complex of the fungus Chrysosporium lucknowense: isolation and characterization of endoglucanases and cellobiohydrolases.	Using different chromatographic techniques, eight cellulolytic enzymes were isolated from the culture broth of a mutant strain of Chrysosporium lucknowense: six endoglucanases (EG: 25 kD, pI 4.0; 28 kD, pI 5.7; 44 kD, pI 6.0; 47 kD, pI 5.7; 51 kD, pI 4.8; 60 kD, pI 3.7) and two cellobiohydrolases (CBH I, 65 kD, pI 4.5; CBH II, 42 kD, pI 4.2). Some of the isolated cellulases were classified into known families of glycoside hydrolases: Cel6A (CBH II), Cel7A (CBH I), Cel12A (EG28), Cel45A (EG25). It was shown that EG44 and EG51 are two different forms of one enzyme. EG44 seems to be a catalytic module of an intact EG51 without a cellulose-binding module. All the enzymes had pH optimum of activity in the acidic range (at pH 4.5-6.0), whereas EG25 and EG47 retained 55-60% of the maximum activity at pH 8.5. Substrate specificity of the purified cellulases against carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), beta-glucan, Avicel, xylan, xyloglucan, laminarin, and p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-cellobioside was studied. EG44 and EG51 were characterized by the highest CMCase activity (59 and 52 U/mg protein). EG28 had the lowest CMCase activity (11 U/mg) amongst the endoglucanases; however, this enzyme displayed the highest activity against beta-glucan (125 U/mg). Only EG51 and CBH I were characterized by high adsorption ability on Avicel cellulose (98-99%). Kinetics of Avicel hydrolysis by the isolated cellulases in the presence of purified beta-glucosidase from Aspergillus japonicus was studied. The hydrolytic efficiency of cellulases (estimated as glucose yield after a 7-day reaction) decreased in the following order: CBH I, EG60, CBH II, EG51, EG47, EG25, EG28, EG44. 
16233143	20051020	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 	Purification and properties of extracellular chitinases from the parasitic fungus Isaria japonica.	Two chitinases (P-1 and P-2) induced with colloidal chitin were purified from the culture supernatant of Isaria japonica by chromatography on DEAE Bio-Gel, chromatofocusing and gel filtration with Superdex 75 pg. The enzymes were electrophoretically homogeneous and estimated to have a molecular mass of 43,273 (+/-5) for P-1 and 31,134 (+/-6) for P-2 by MALDI-MS. The optimum pH and temperature was 3.5-4.0 and 50 degrees C for P-1 and 4.0-4.5 and 40 degrees C for P-2. P-1 acted against chitosan 7B (degree of deacetylation, 65-74%) = glycol chitin > colloidal chitin = chitosan 10B (degree of deacetylation, above 99%) and P-2 against chitosan 7B > glycol chitin = chitosan 10B > colloidal chitin in order of activity. The products of hydrolysis of chitin and chitosan hexamer were analyzed by MALDI-MS. The products from the chitin hexamer obtained with P-1 were almost all dimers with only a small amount of trimer whereas those obtained with P-2 were mainly trimers with some dimer and tetramer. No hydrolysis of chitosan hexamer was observed. High homology in the amino-terminal sequence for chitinase P-1 was exhibited by chitinases from Trichoderma harzianum, Candida albicans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae in the range of 48-39%. The highest homology for Chitinase P-2 was shown by an endochitinase from Metarhizium anisopliae of 66%, while 44% homology was exhibited by chitinases of Leguminosae plants. 
21290589	20110204	J._Biomed._Mater._Res._Part_B_Appl._Biomater.	D016428 D013485 	Integration of cellulases into bacterial cellulose: Toward bioabsorbable cellulose composites.	Cellulose biodegradation resulting from enzymolysis generally occurs in nature rather than in the human body because of the absence of cellulose degrading enzymes. In order to achieve in-vivo degradation in human body for in-vivo tissue regeneration applications, we developed a bioaborbable bacterial cellulose (BBC) material, which integrates one or more cellulose degrading enzymes (cellulases), and demonstrated its degradability in vitro using buffers with pH values relevant to wound environments. We introduced a double lyophilizing process to retain the microstructure of the bacterial cellulose as well as the activity of embedded enzymes allowing for long-term storage of the material, which only requires hydration before use. Enzymes and their combinations have been examined to optimize the in-vitro degradation of the BBC material. In-vitro studies revealed that acidic cellulases from Trichoderma viride showed reasonable activity for pH values ranging from 4.5 to 6.0. A commercial cellulase (cellulase-5000) did not show good activity at pH 7.4, but its degrading ability increased when used in conjunction with a β-glucosidase from Bacillus subtilis or a β-glucosidase from Trichoderma sp. Given the harmless glucose product of the enzymatic degradation of cellulose, the BBC material may be ideal for many wound care and tissue engineering applications for the bioabsorbable purpose. 
22425594	20120320	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	A new Zn(II)(2)Cys(6)-type transcription factor BglR regulates β-glucosidase expression in Trichoderma reesei.	BglR (PI: 52368, beta-glucosidaseregulator) was identified as a new transcription factor that up-regulates expression of specific genes encoding β-glucosidases. Based on a comparative genomic analysis to verify SNPs between Trichoderma reesei mutant PC-3-7 and its parent KDG-12, 19 were confirmed. One of the SNPs was found to cause a missense mutation close to the end of the DNA-binding region of BglR that turned out to be a Zn(II)(2)Cys(6)-type fungal-specific transcription factor. BglR was found to share little homologous to amyR of Aspergillus oryzae that is commonly considered a key regulator of starch degradation. A mutant lacking the bglr gene as well as the PC-3-7 mutant exhibited elevated cellulase production during growth on cellobiose. Reversion of the SNP missence mutation within bglr to the wild-type allele resulted in reduced cellulase production. Expression of specific β-glucosidase genes in a bglr gene disruptant was repressed with the mutant exhibiting little ability to hydrolyze cellobiose during early log phase even when induced. Thus, one of the functions of BglR is to up-regulate specific β-glucosidase genes (with the exception of bgl1, which is seemingly under the direct control of Xyr1). The glucose produced then triggers carbon catabolite repression in cellobiose culture. 
18835993	20081007	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013486 	Streptomyces scabies 87-22 possesses a functional tomatinase.	The actinomycete Streptomyces scabies 87-22 is the causal agent of common scab, an economically important disease of potato and taproot crops. Sequencing of the S. scabies 87-22 genome revealed the presence of a gene with high homology to the gene encoding the alpha-tomatine-detoxifying enzyme tomatinase found in fungal tomato pathogens. The tomA gene from S. scabies 87-22 was cotranscribed with a putative family 1 glycosyl hydrolase gene, and purified TomA protein was active only on alpha-tomatine and not potato glycoalkaloids or xylans. Tomatinase-null mutants were more sensitive to alpha-tomatine than the wild-type strain in a disk diffusion assay. Interestingly, tomatine affected only aerial mycelium and not vegetative mycelium, suggesting that the target(s) of alpha-tomatine is not present during vegetative growth. Severities of disease for tomato seedlings affected by S. scabies 87-22 wild-type and DeltatomA1 strains were indistinguishable, suggesting that tomatinase is not important in pathogenicity on tomato plants. However, conservation of tomA on a pathogenicity island in S. acidiscabies and S. turgidiscabies suggests a role in plant-microbe interaction. 
8535510	19951101	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D016428 D013485 	The role of recognition in the induction of specific chitinases during mycoparasitism by Trichoderma harzianum.	The induction of chitinolytic enzymes in the biocontrol agent Trichoderma harzianum during parasitism on Sclerotium rolfsii and the role of fungal-fungal recognition in this process were studied. A change in the chitinolytic enzyme profile was detected during the interaction between the fungi, grown in dual culture on synthetic medium. Before coming into contact with each other, both fungi contained a protein with constitutive 1,4-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity. As early as 12 h after contact, the chitinolytic activity in S. rolfsii disappeared, while that of T. harzianum (a protein with a molecular mass of 102 kDa, CHIT 102) greatly increased. After 24 h of interaction, the activity of CHIT 102 diminished concomitantly with the appearance of a 73 kDa 1,4-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase, which became clear and strong at 48 h. This phenomenon did not occur if the S. rolfsii mycelium was autoclaved prior to incubation with T. harzianum, suggesting its dependence on vital elements from the host. Cycloheximide inhibited this phenomenon, indicating that de novo synthesis of enzymes is taking place in Trichoderma during these stages of the parasitism. A biomimetic system based on the binding of a purified surface lectin from the host S. rolfsii to nylon fibres was used to dissect the effect of recognition. An increase in CHIT 102 activity was detected, suggesting that the induction of chitinolytic enzymes in Trichoderma is an early event which is elicited by the recognition signal (i.e. lectin-carbohydrate interactions). It is postulated that recognition is the first step in a cascade of antagonistic events which triggers the parasitic response in Trichoderma. 
19379821	20090422	Metab._Eng.	D016428 	Development of strains of the thermotolerant yeast Hansenula polymorpha capable of alcoholic fermentation of starch and xylan.	The thermotolerant yeast Hansenula polymorpha ferments glucose and xylose to ethanol at high temperatures. However, H. polymorpha cannot utilize starchy materials or xylans. Heterologous amylolytic and xylanolytic enzymes have to be expressed in this yeast to provide for utilization and growth on starch and xylan. Genes SWA2 and GAM1 from the yeast Schwanniomyces occidentalis, encoding alpha-amylase and glucoamylase, respectively, were expressed in H. polymorpha. The expression was achieved by integration of the SWA2 and GAM1 genes under the strong constitutive promoter of the H. polymorpha glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene (HpGAP) into H. polymorpha genome. Resulting transformants acquired the ability to grow on a minimal medium containing soluble starch as a sole carbon source. Ethanol production at high-temperature fermentation from starch by the recombinant strains was up to 10 g/L. The XYN2 gene encoding endoxylanase of the fungus Trichoderma reseei was expressed in H. polymorpha. Co-expression of xlnD gene coding for beta-xylosidase of the fungus Aspergillus niger and the XYN2 gene in H. polymorpha was achieved by integration of these genes under control of the HpGAP promoter. Resulting transformants were capable of growth and alcoholic fermentation on a minimal medium supplemented with birchwood xylan as a sole carbon source at 48 degrees C. 
3550429	19870301	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013486 D013487 	Regulation of RAD54- and RAD52-lacZ gene fusions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae in response to DNA damage.	The RAD52 and RAD54 genes in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae are involved in both DNA repair and DNA recombination. RAD54 has recently been shown to be inducible by X-rays, while RAD52 is not. To further investigate the regulation of these genes, we constructed gene fusions using 5' regions upstream of the RAD52 and RAD54 genes and a 3'-terminal fragment of the Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase gene. Yeast transformants with either an integrated or an autonomously replicating plasmid containing these fusions expressed beta-galactosidase activity constitutively. In addition, the RAD54 gene fusion was inducible in both haploid and diploid cells in response to the DNA-damaging agents X-rays, UV light, and methyl methanesulfonate, but not in response to heat shock. The RAD52-lacZ gene fusion showed little or no induction in response to X-ray or UV radiation nor methyl methanesulfonate. Typical induction levels for RAD54 in cells exposed to such agents were from 3- to 12-fold, in good agreement with previous mRNA analyses. When MATa cells were arrested in G1 with alpha-factor, RAD54 was still inducible after DNA damage, indicating that the observed induction is independent of the cell cycle. Using a yeast vector containing the EcoRI structural gene fused to the GAL1 promoter, we showed that double-strand breaks alone are sufficient in vivo for induction of RAD54. 
15853815	20050428	FEBS_J.	D016428 D013485 	Determination of thioxylo-oligosaccharide binding to family 11 xylanases using electrospray ionization Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry and X-ray crystallography.	Noncovalent binding of thioxylo-oligosaccharide inhibitors, methyl 4-thio-alpha-xylobioside (S-Xyl2-Me), methyl 4,4II-dithio-alpha-xylotrioside (S-Xyl3-Me), methyl 4,4II,4III-trithio-alpha-xylotetroside (S-Xyl4-Me), and methyl 4,4II,4III,4IV-tetrathio-alpha-xylopentoside (S-Xyl5-Me), to three family 11 endo-1,4-beta-xylanases from Trichoderma reesei (TRX I and TRX II) and Chaetomium thermophilum (CTX) was characterized using electrospray ionization Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (FT-ICR) MS and X-ray crystallography. Ultra-high mass-resolving power and mass accuracy inherent to FT-ICR allowed mass measurements for noncovalent complexes to within |DeltaM|average of 2 p.p.m. The binding constants determined by MS titration experiments were in the range 10(4)-10(3) M-1, decreasing in the series of S-Xyl5-Me>or=S-Xyl4-Me>S-Xyl3-Me. In contrast, S-Xyl2-Me did not bind to any xylanase at the initial concentration of 5-200 microM, indicating increasing affinity with increasing number of xylopyranosyl units, with a minimum requirement of three. The crystal structures of CTX-inhibitor complexes gave interesting insights into the binding. Surprisingly, none of the inhibitors occupied any of the aglycone subsites of the active site. The binding to only the glycone subsites is nonproductive for catalysis, and yet this has also been observed for other family 11 xylanases in complex with beta-d-xylotetraose [Wakarchuk WW, Campbell RL, Sung WL, Davoodi J & Makoto Y (1994) Protein Sci3, 465-475, and Sabini E, Wilson KS, Danielsen S, Schulein M & Davies GJ (2001) Acta CrystallogrD57, 1344-1347]. Therefore, the role of the aglycone subsites remains controversial despite their obvious contribution to catalysis. 
12210548	20020905	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Extracellular enzymatic activities of Bipolaris sorokiniana isolates.	Several enzymatic activities were investigated in six isolates of the fungus Bipolaris sorokiniana, originating from different areas of Brazil. Among the glycosidases studied, beta-glucosidase, beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase, beta-xylosidase, cellobiohydrolase, and chitobiohydrolase were the major activities. In some isolates, beta-glucuronidase, beta-galactosidase, and alpha-mannosidase activities were also present. Polysaccharide-hydrolyzing enzymes, such as pectin lyase and carboxymethyl cellulase were detected in significant amounts, and their activities were variable among the different isolates. Other enzymes, namely phosphatases, proteinases and phenol oxidase, were also examined, showing variable amounts depending on the isolate. The pH dependence of all enzymes tested was investigated. Endoproteinase, carboxymethyl cellulase, and phenoloxidase had maximum activity in the pH range of 6-8, whilst all other enzymes showed maximum activity at pH 4-6. 
22555558	20120505	Biochem._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of a chitinase (Chit62) from Serratia marcescens B4A and its efficacy as a bioshield against plant fungal pathogens.	Chitinases have been suggested to be involved in pathogen-antagonist interaction during biological control progress of plant pathogenic fungi. Here, a recombinant bacterial chitinase originally from Serratia marcescens B4A was produced, purified, and assayed biochemically to ascertain the activity and determine the kinetics parameters. Active enzyme was used to determine its biocontrol features against fungal phytopathogens. The results demonstrated that the optimum pH and temperature for the enzyme activity were 6.0 and 55 °C, respectively. The K(m) and V(max) values were 3.30 mg ml(-1) and 0.92 units, respectively. The recombinant chitinase was demonstrated to be highly active in controlling fungal pathogens. 
18944674	20081024	Phytopathology	D016428 	The Mycoparasite Ampelomyces quisqualis Expresses exgA Encoding an exo-beta-1,3-Glucanase in Culture and During Mycoparasitism.	ABSTRACT Ampelomyces quisqualis, a mycoparasite of fungi causing powdery mildews, exhibited high levels of extracellular exo-beta-1,3-glucanase activity in culture compared with Neurospora crassa and Gliocladium roseum. A. quisqualis culture filtrates affected powdery mildew caused by Sphaerotheca fusca in a manner indicative of cell wall degradation, as determined by microscopic examination. A gene encoding an exo-beta-1,3-glucanase in A. quisqualis, designated exgA, was isolated and sequenced. The predicted polypeptide deduced from exgA had 46, 42, and 30% identity with amino acid sequences of Trichoderma harzianum exo-beta-1,3-glucanase and Cochliobolus carbonum EXG1 (both encoding exo-beta-1,3-glucanase) and T. harzianum bng13.1 (encoding an endo-beta-1,3-glucanase), respectively. The exgA gene had a predicted molecular mass of 84 kDa and a pI of 4.79. The gene was expressed during the late stages of growth in culture, and transcription was induced by fungal cell wall components. Transcript levels for exgA were present during late stages of hyperpar-asitism and were abundant along A. quisqualis mycelium and were slightly less abundant in A. quisqualis pycnidia. 
1630461	19920811	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013486 D013487 	The N-terminal 96 residues of MCM1, a regulator of cell type-specific genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, are sufficient for DNA binding, transcription activation, and interaction with alpha 1.	MCM1 performs several functions necessary for its role in regulating cell type-specific gene expression in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae: DNA binding, transcription activation, and interaction with coregulatory proteins such as alpha 1. We analyzed a set of MCM1 deletion derivatives using in vivo reporter gene assays and in vitro DNA-binding studies to determine which regions of MCM1 are important for its various activities. We also analyzed a set of LexA-MCM1 hybrids to examine the ability of different segments of MCM1 to activate transcription independent of MCM1's DNA-binding function. The first third of MCM1 [MCM1(1-96)], which includes an 80-residue segment homologous to the mammalian serum response factor, was sufficient for high-affinity DNA binding, for activation of reporter gene expression, and for interaction with alpha 1 in vitro and in vivo. However, the ability of MCM1(1-96) to activate transcription and to interact with alpha 1 was somewhat reduced compared with wild-type MCM1 [MCM1(1-286)]. Optimal interaction with alpha 1 required residues 99 to 117, in which 18 of 19 amino acids are acidic in character. Optimal transcription activation required a segment from residues 188 to 286, in which 50% of the amino acids are glutamine. Deletion of this segment from MCM1 reduced expression of reporter genes by about twofold. Moreover, LexA-MCM1 hybrids containing this segment were able to activate expression of reporter genes that rely on LexA binding sites as potential upstream activation sequences. Thus, glutamine-rich regions may contribute to the activation function of yeast transcription activators, as has been suggested for glutamine-rich mammalian proteins such as Sp1. 
22707073	20120619	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Fungal β-glucosidase expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains expressing β-glucosidases from Thermoascus aurantiacus (Tabgl1) and Phanerochaete chrysosporium (PcbglB and Pccbgl1) were constructed and compared to S. cerevisiae Y294[SFI], previously identified as the best β-glucosidase-producing strain. The PcbglB was also intracellularly expressed in combination with the lac12 lactose permease of Kluyveromyces lactis in S. cerevisiae Y294[PcbglB + Lac12]. The recombinant extracellular β-glucosidases indicated maximum activity in the pH range 4-5 and temperature optima varying from 50 to 75 °C. The S. cerevisiae Y294[Pccbgl1] strain performed best under aerobic and anaerobic conditions, producing 2.6 times more β-glucosidase activity than S. cerevisiae Y294[SFI] and an ethanol concentration of 4.8 g l(-1) after 24 h of cultivation on cellobiose as sole carbohydrate source. S. cerevisiae Y294[Tabgl1] was unable to grow on cellobiose (liquid medium), whereas S. cerevisiae Y294[PcbglB + Lac12] exhibited limited growth. 
19592237	20090714	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 	Effect of culture medium composition on Trichoderma reesei's morphology and cellulase production.	The objective of this study was to determine how fungal morphology influences the volumetric cellulase productivity of Trichoderma reesei cultured in four media with lactose and lactobionic acid as fed-batch in a 7 L stirred tank bioreactor. The use of a cellulose-yeast extract culture medium yielded the highest enzyme production with a volumetric enzyme activity of 69.8 U L(-1) h(-1), and a maximum fungal biomass of 14.7 g L(-1). These findings were associated with the following morphological characteristics of the fungus: total mycelia was 98% of total mean projected area, mean hyphae length of 10 mm, mean hyphae volume of 45.1 mm(3), mean hyphae diameter of 7.9 microm, number of branches 9, and number of tips per hypha 29. A positive correlation was found between the total mycelia, the number of tips and the volumetric enzyme productivity, indicating the weight of these variables on the enzyme productivity. 
19277702	20090312	Planta	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning and characterization of the promoter for the multiple stress-inducible gene BjCHI1 from Brassica juncea.	We have previously isolated a Brassica juncea cDNA encoding a novel chitinase BjCHI1 with two chitin-binding domains (Zhao and Chye in Plant Mol Biol 40:1009-1018, 1999). The expression of BjCHI1 was highly inducible by methyl jasmonate (MeJA) treatment, wounding, caterpillar feeding, and pathogenic fungal infection. These observations suggest that the promoter of BjCHI1 gene might contain specific cis-acting elements for stress responses. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of the BjCHI1 promoter. A 1,098 bp BjCHI1 genomic DNA fragment upstream of the ATG start codon was isolated by PCR walking and various constructs were made by fusing the BjCHI1 promoter or its derivatives to beta-glucuronidase reporter gene. The transgenic Arabidopsis plants showed that the BjCHI1 promoter responded to wounding and MeJA treatment, and to treatments with either NaCl or polyethyleneglycol (PEG 6000), indicating that the BjCHI1 promoter responses to both biotic and abiotic stresses. A transient gene expression system of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves was adopted for promoter deletion analysis, and the results showed that a 76 bp region from -695 to -620 in the BjCHI1 promoter was necessary for MeJA-responsive expression. Furthermore, removal of a conserved T/G-box (AACGTG) at -353 to -348 of the promoter greatly reduced the induction by MeJA. This is the first T/G-box element identified in a chitinase gene promoter. Gain-of-function analysis demonstrated that the cis-acting element present in the 76 bp region requires coupling with the T/G-box to confer full magnitude of BjCHI1 induction by MeJA. 
18340445	20080315	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Isoflavone aglycones production from isoflavone glycosides by display of beta-glucosidase from Aspergillus oryzae on yeast cell surface.	For efficient production of isoflavone aglycones from soybean isoflavones, we isolated three novel types of beta-glucosidase (BGL1, BGL3, and BGL5) from the filamentous fungi Aspergillus oryzae. Three enzymes were independently displayed on the cell surface of a yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a fusion protein with alpha-agglutinin. Three beta-glucosidase-displaying yeast strains hydrolyzed isoflavone glycosides efficiently but exhibited different substrate specificities. Among these beta-glucosidases, BGL1 exhibited the highest activity and also broad substrate specificity to isoflavone glycosides. Although glucose released from isoflavone glycosides are generally known to inhibit beta-glucosidase, the residual ratio of isoflavone glycosides in the reaction mixture with BGL1-displaying yeast strain (Sc-BGL1) reached approximately 6.2%, and the glucose concentration in the reaction mixture was maintained at lower level. This result indicated that Sc-BGL1 assimilated the glucose before they inhibited the hydrolysis reaction, and efficient production of isoflavone aglycones was achieved by engineered yeast cells displaying beta-glucosidase. 
11770853	20020105	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 	Chitinolytic and cellulolytic Pseudomonas sp. antagonistic to fungal pathogens enhances nodulation by Mesorhizobium sp. Cicer in chickpea.	Pseudomonas strains isolated from the rhizosphere of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) and green gram (Vigna radiata L.) were screened for the production of chitinases and cellulases. Five Pseudomonas strains were found to produce appreciable amounts of both enzymes in culture-free supernatants and showed growth inhibition of the two fungi Pythium aphanidermatum (Oomycete) and Rhizoctonia solani (Basidiomycete) in plates on potato dextrose agar medium. The fungal growth inhibition was not correlated with cell wall-degrading enzyme activity, which suggested that other antifungal compounds produced by these rhizobacteria were also involved in antagonism. Coinoculation of the Pseudomonas strains with the Mesorhizobium sp. Cicer strain Ca 181 resulted in a significant increase in nodule biomass when grown under sterilized chillum jar conditions. The results suggest that hydrolytic enzymes produced by Pseudomonas sp. contribute to suppression of plant diseases by inhibiting growth of phytopathogenic fungi and also promote nodulation of legumes by rhizobia. 
23892828	20130730	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of antifungal activity of the GH-46 subclass III chitosanase from Bacillus circulans MH-K1.	We characterized the antifungal activity of the Bacillus circulans subclass III MH-K1 chitosanase (MH-K1 chitosanase), which is one of the most intensively studied glycoside hydrolases (GHs) that belong to GH family 46. MH-K1 chitosanase inhibited the growth of zygomycetes fungi, Rhizopus and Mucor, even at 10 pmol (0.3 μg)/ml culture probably via its fungistatic effect. The amino acid substitution E37Q abolished the antifungal activity of MH-K1 chitosanase, but retained binding to chitotriose. The E37Q mutant was fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) at its N-terminus and proved to act as a chitosan probe in combination with wheat-germ agglutinin (WGA), which is a chitin-specific binding lectin. The GFP-fused MH-K1 chitosanase mutant E37Q (GFP-E37Q) bound clearly to the hyphae of the Rhizopus and Mucor strains, indicating the presence of chitosan. In contrast, Cy5-labelled WGA (Cy5-WGA), but not GFP-E37Q, stained the hyphae of non-zygomycetes species, i.e. Fusarium oxysporum, Penicillium expansum, and Aspergillus awamori. When the mycelia of Rhizopus oryzae were treated with wild type MH-K1 chitosanase, they could not bind to GFP-E37Q but were stained instead by Cy5-WGA. We conclude that chitin is covered by chitosan in the cell walls of R. oryzae.  
12353911	20021002	Mol._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	A gel diffusion assay for visualization and quantification of chitinase activity.	Higher plants, bacteria, fungi, insects, and crustaceans all produce chitinases. Chitinase genes in many organisms are currently under investigation. Chitinase activity is usually assayed with radiolabeled or fluorogenic substrates. We developed a simple, inexpensive, nonradioactive gel-diffusion assay for chitinase that can be used to screen large numbers of samples. In this assay, chitinase diffuses from a small circular well cut in an agarose or agar gel containing the substrate glycol chitin, a soluble, modified form of chitin. Chitinase catalyzes the cleavage of glycol chitin as it diffuses through the gel, leaving a dark, unstained circular zone around the well, because the fluorescent dye calcofluor binds only to undigested chitin. Sample activities can be determined from linear regression of log-standard enzyme concentration versus the zone diameter of internal standards on each Petri dish used for a diffusion assay. 
12210222	20020905	Electrophoresis	D016428 D013485 	Impact of deglycosylation methods on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry for proteomic analysis.	Glycosylation is a common post-translational modification that can add complexity to the proteome of many cell types. We used enzymatic and chemical methods of deglycosylation to treat a heavily glycosylated exoproteome sample from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. Deglycosylated samples were resolved on one-dimensional (1-D) and two-dimensional (2-D) gels in order to determine the effect of deglycosylation on the electrophoresis patterns and on the ability to identify proteins by peptide mass matching using matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) analysis of in-gel tryptic digests. We found that deglycosylation of the protein sample resulted in different protein patterns on 1-D and 2-D gels, reduced the complexity of gel patterns, and enhanced the protein identification of some proteins via MALDI-TOF-MS. Deglycosylation with trifluoromethanesulfonic acid (TFMS) was found to be more effective than enzymatic treatments. These deglycosylation techniques may be employed in whole proteome analysis to locate glycosylated proteins and assist in their identification by MS. 
5144751	19711101	Biochem._J.	D016428 	The composition of the cell wall of Fusicoccum amygdali.	1. The cell wall of Fusicoccum amygdali consisted of polysaccharides (85%), protein (4-6%), lipid (5%) and phosphorus (0.1%). 2. The main carbohydrate constituent was d-glucose; smaller amounts of d-glucosamine, d-galactose, d-mannose, l-rhamnose, xylose and arabinose were also identified, and 16 common amino acids were detected. 3. Chitin, which accounted for most of the cell-wall glucosamine, was isolated in an undegraded form by an enzymic method. Chitosan was not detected, but traces of glucosamine were found in alkali-soluble and water-soluble fractions. 4. Cell walls were stained dark blue by iodine and were attacked by alpha-amylase, with liberation of glucose, maltose and maltotriose, indicating the existence of chains of alpha-(1-->4)-linked glucopyranose residues. 5. Glucose and gentiobiose were liberated from cell walls by the action of an exo-beta-(1-->3)-glucanase, giving evidence for both beta-(1-->3)- and beta-(1-->6)-glucopyranose linkages. 6. Incubation of cell walls with Helix pomatia digestive enzymes released glucose, N-acetyl-d-glucosamine and a non-diffusible fraction, containing most of the cell-wall galactose, mannose and rhamnose. Part of this fraction was released by incubating cell walls with Pronase; acid hydrolysis yielded galactose 6-phosphate and small amounts of mannose 6-phosphate and glucose 6-phosphate as well as other materials. Extracellular polysaccharides of a similar nature were isolated and may be formed by the action of lytic enzymes on the cell wall. 7. About 30% of the cell wall was resistant to the action of the H. pomatia digestive enzymes; the resistant fraction was shown to be a predominantly alpha-(1-->3)-glucan. 8. Fractionation of the cell-wall complex with 1m-sodium hydroxide gave three principal glucan fractions: fraction BB had [alpha](D) +236 degrees (in 1m-sodium hydroxide) and showed two components on sedimentation analysis; fraction AA(2) had [alpha](D) -71 degrees (in 1m-sodium hydroxide) and contained predominantly beta-linkages; fraction AA(1) had [alpha](D) +40 degrees (in 1m-sodium hydroxide) and may contain both alpha- and beta-linkages. 
19899621	20091111	Pol._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Isolation and identification of a new fungal strain for amylase biosynthesis.	Fungi are well known for their ability to excrete enzymes into the environment. The fungal isolate FSS60 was the best amylase producer among one hundred and thirty-six isolates obtained from Syrian soils and tested for amylase production. According to the sequence of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA gene, the isolate was identified as Aspergillus flavus. Optimal initial pH for amylase production was found to be 9.0. The enzyme was optimally active at 50 degrees C and pH 5.0. 
11134051	20010113	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Multiple conformations of catalytic serine and histidine in acetylxylan esterase at 0.90 A.	Acetylxylan esterase (AXEII; 207 amino acids) from Penicillium purpurogenum has substrate specificities toward acetate esters of d-xylopyranose residues in xylan and belongs to a new class of alpha/beta hydrolases. The crystal structure of AXEII has been determined by single isomorphous replacement and anomalous scattering, and refined at 0.90- and 1.10-A resolutions with data collected at 85 K and 295 K, respectively. The tertiary structure consists of a doubly wound alpha/beta sandwich, having a central six-stranded parallel beta-sheet flanked by two parallel alpha-helices on each side. The catalytic residues Ser(90), His(187), and Asp(175) are located at the C-terminal end of the sheet, an exposed region of the molecule. The serine and histidine side chains in the 295 K structure show the frequently observed conformations in which Ser(90) is trans and the hydroxyl group is in the plane of the imidazole ring of His(187). However, the structure at 85 K displays an additional conformation in which Ser(90) side-chain hydroxyl is away from the plane of the imidazole ring of His(187). The His(187) side chain forms a hydrogen bond with a sulfate ion and adopts an altered conformation. The only other known hydrolase that has a similar tertiary structure is Fusarium solani cutinase. The exposed nature of the catalytic triad suggests that AXEII is a pure esterase, i.e. an alpha/beta hydrolase with specificity for nonlipidic polar substrates. 
17663762	20070801	BMC_Plant_Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Calcium-mediated perception and defense responses activated in plant cells by metabolite mixtures secreted by the biocontrol fungus Trichoderma atroviride.	Calcium is commonly involved as intracellular messenger in the transduction by plants of a wide range of biotic stimuli, including signals from pathogenic and symbiotic fungi. Trichoderma spp. are largely used in the biological control of plant diseases caused by fungal phytopathogens and are able to colonize plant roots. Early molecular events underlying their association with plants are relatively unknown. Here, we investigated the effects on plant cells of metabolite complexes secreted by Trichoderma atroviride wild type P1 and a deletion mutant of this strain on the level of cytosolic free Ca2+ and activation of defense responses. Trichoderma culture filtrates were obtained by growing the fungus alone or in direct antagonism with its fungal host, the necrotrophic pathogen Botrytis cinerea, and then separated in two fractions (>3 and <3 kDa). When applied to aequorin-expressing soybean (Glycine max L.) cell suspension cultures, Trichoderma and Botrytis metabolite mixtures were distinctively perceived and activated transient intracellular Ca2+ elevations with different kinetics, specific patterns of intracellular accumulation of reactive oxygen species and induction of cell death. Both Ca2+ signature and cellular effects were modified by the culture medium from the knock-out mutant of Trichoderma, defective for the production of the secreted 42 kDa endochitinase. New insights are provided into the mechanism of interaction between Trichoderma and plants, indicating that secreted fungal molecules are sensed by plant cells through intracellular Ca2+ changes. Plant cells are able to discriminate signals originating in the single or two-fungal partner interaction and modulate defense responses. 
9108273	19970326	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	An Aspergillus nidulans nuclear protein, AnCP, involved in enhancement of Taka-amylase A gene expression, binds to the CCAAT-containing taaG2, amdS, and gatA promoters.	Using AnCP (Aspergillus nidulans CCAAT-binding protein) as a CCAAT-specific binding factor model, the possibility that one factor is able to recognize CCAAT sequences in several different genes in A. nidulans was examined. DNase I protection analysis showed that AnCP specifically bound to CCAAT sequence-containing regions comprising 21 to 36 bp of the taa, amdS and gatA genes. Furthermore, replacement of the CCAAT sequence with CGTAA was found to abolish the binding of AnCP and to have an inhibitory effect on taa promoter activity. This clearly demonstrates a positive function of the CCAAT element. However, amylase was induced by starch and repressed by glucose in a CCAAT-box disruptant, as in wild-type cells. 
15560140	20041125	BioTechniques	D003160 D023362 D016428 D023361 	"One plate/three-reporter" assay format for the detection and validation of yeast two-hybrid interactions.	We describe a novel assay format for the Gal4-based yeast two-hybrid-system, in which the readout from three different reporter genes is measured sequentially in a single microplate. Activation of the URA3, MEL1, and lacZ reporters in response to a protein-protein interaction is monitored by measuring sequentially: (i) growth in medium lacking uracil, (ii) alpha-galactosidase activity, and (iii) beta-galactosidase. The data thus generated permit elimination of many false positive signals and provide a preliminary measurement of reporter activation-strength that may be confirmed by further analysis. The assay procedure is inexpensive and requires few liquid-handling steps. It is appropriate for automated high-throughput interaction mating assays, validation of putative interactor strains and hybrid-protein self-activator tests. 
2506437	19890701	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013486 D013487 	Two DNA repair and recombination genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, RAD52 and RAD54, are induced during meiosis.	The DNA repair and recombination genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, RAD52 and RAD54, were transcriptionally induced approximately 10- to 15-fold in sporulating MATa/alpha cells. Congenic MATa/a cells, which did not sporulate, did not show similar increases. Assays of beta-galactosidase activity in strains harboring either a RAD52- or RAD54-lacZ gene fusion indicated that this induction occurred at a time concomitant with a commitment to meiotic recombination, as measured by prototroph formation from his1 heteroalleles. 
7275933	19810901	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Isolation, properties, function, and regulation of endo-(1 leads to 3)-beta-glucanases in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Cell-free extracts, membranous fractions, and cell wall preparations from Schizosaccharomyces pombe were examined for the presence of (1 --> 3)-beta-, (1 --> 3)-alpha-, and (1 --> 6)-beta-glucanase activities. The various glucanases were assayed in cells at different growth stages. Only (1 --> 3)-beta-glucanase activity was found, and this was associated with the cell wall fraction. Chromatographic fractionation of the crude enzyme revealed two endo-(1 --> 3)-beta-glucanases, designated as glucanase I and glucanase II. Glucanase I consisted of two subunits of molecular weights 78,500 and 82,000, and glucanase II was a single polypeptide of 75,000. Although both enzymes had similar substrate specificities and similar hydrolytic action on laminarin, glucanase II had much higher hydrolytic activity on isolated cell walls of S. pombe. On the basis of differential lytic activity on cell walls, glucanase II was shown to be present in conjugating cells and highest in sporulating cells. Glucanase II appeared to be specifically involved in conjugation and sporulation since vegetative cells and nonconjugating and nonsporulating cells did not contain this enzyme. The appearance of glucanase II in conjugating cells may be due to de novo enzyme synthesis since no activation could be demonstrated by combining extracts from vegetative and conjugating cells. Increased glucanase activity occurred when walls from conjugating cells were combined with walls from sporulating cells. Studies with trypsin and proteolytic inhibitors suggest that glucanase II exists as a zymogen in conjugating cells. A temperature-sensitive mutant of S. pombe was isolated which lysed at 37 degrees C. Glucanase activity was higher in vegetative cells held at 37 degrees C than cells held at 25 degrees C. Unlike the wild-type strain, this mutant contained glucanase II activity during vegetative growth and may be a regulatory mutant. 
20358285	20100402	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 D013485 	Biochemical characterization of Candida albicans alpha-glucosidase I heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli.	Protein glycosylation is one of the most common post-translational modifications present in the eukaryotic cell. The N-linked glycosylation is a biosynthetic pathway where an oligosaccharide is added to asparagine residues within the endoplasmic reticulum. Upon addition of the N-linked glycan to nascent proteins, alpha-glucosidase I removes the outermost alpha1,2-glucose unit from the N-linked core Glc(3)Man(9)GlcNAc(2). We have previously demonstrated that the endoplasmic reticulum α-glucosidase I is required for normal cell wall composition, and virulence of the human pathogen Candida albicans. In spite of the importance of this enzyme for normal cell biology, little is known about its structure and the amino acids participating in enzyme catalysis. Here, a DNA fragment corresponding to the 3'-end fragment of C. albicans CWH41, the encoding gene for α-glucosidase I, was expressed in a bacterial system and the recombinant peptide showed alpha-glucosidase activity, despite lacking 419 amino acids from the N-terminal end. The biochemical characterisation of the recombinant enzyme showed that presence of hydroxyl groups at carbons 3 and 6, and orientation of hydroxyl moiety at C-2 are important for glucose recognition. Additionally, results suggest that cysteine rather than histidine residues are involved in the catalysis by the recombinant enzyme. 
1421154	19921101	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Differential accumulation of mRNAs encoding extracellular and intracellular PR proteins in tomato induced by virulent and avirulent races of Cladosporium fulvum.	Tomato leaves infected by the fungal pathogen Cladosporium fulvum contain several types of intracellular and extracellular pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins. Previously, we reported the purification and serological characterization of five extracellular PR proteins: P2, P4, P6, a chitinase and a beta-1,3-glucanase [22, 23]. Here we describe the purification of a basic intracellular 33 kDa beta-1,3-glucanase and the isolation and characterization of cDNA clones encoding the two extracellular P14 isomers P4 and P6, the extracellular acidic beta-1,3-glucanase and a basic 35 kDa beta-1,3-glucanase, different from the purified 33 kDa protein. Southern blot analysis demonstrated that tomato PR proteins are not encoded by large gene families, as is the case in tobacco. The number of genes corresponding to each protein was estimated to vary between one and three. A northern blot analysis indicated that the mRNAs for the extracellular PR proteins (P4, P6 and acidic beta-1,3-glucanase) accumulate to similar levels in compatible and incompatible tomato-C. fulvum interactions, although the maximum level of expression is reached much faster in the incompatible interaction. On the other hand, the mRNA for the basic 35 kDa beta-1,3-glucanase is induced rapidly to high levels in both interactions, but declines in time to background levels only in the incompatible interaction. The relevance of this difference in relation to plant defence is discussed. 
24095046	20131008	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Xylose induces the phyllosphere yeast Pseudozyma antarctica to produce a cutinase-like enzyme which efficiently degrades biodegradable plastics.	There is a need to speed up the degradation of used agricultural mulch films that are made of biodegradable plastics (BPs) in the field. Treating them with BP-degrading enzymes could be a solution to this problem. A cutinase-like enzyme of yeast Pseudozyma antarctica (PaE) has wide specificity of BPs degradation, but needs to be produced efficiently. Here we report that the production of PaE by P. antarctica can be increased by using xylose as carbon source. BP-degradation activity was analyzed using a polybutylene succinate-co-adipate (PBSA) emulsion as the substrate. Strain P. antarctica GB-4(1)W was found to be the best PaE producer among the tested strains. Using a 5-L jar fermentor with xylose fed-batch cultivation, high PaE productivity could be maintained and about 21 U/ml of PaE was obtained in 120 h. This amount was 100 times higher than the amount that we obtained previously (0.21 U/ml by flask cultivation using glycerol as carbon source). Under repeated xylose fed-batch cultivation with 24 h intervals, the maximum PaE production rate (0.34 U/ml/h) was maintained and the highest PaE productivity (28,000 U/2 L/d) was repeatedly obtained for 7 intervals. The activity of filtered jar-culture (crude PaE) was stable over 12 weeks at 4°C. Commercially available BP mulch films (20 μm thickness, cut into 1-cm-squares) were completely degraded by submerging them in crude PaE (2 U/ml) at 30°C in 24 h. These results indicated that concentrated PaE can rapidly degrade the strength of BP mulch films in the field so that they do not interfere with plowing. 
10702877	20000307	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Hydrolytic activity of alpha-galactosidases against deoxy derivatives of p-nitrophenyl alpha-D-galactopyranoside.	The four possible monodeoxy derivatives of p-nitrophenyl (PNP) alpha-D-galactopyranoside were synthesized, and hydrolytic activities of the alpha-galactosidase of green coffee bean, Mortierella vinacea and Aspergillus niger against them were elucidated. The 2- and 6-deoxy substrates were hydrolyzed by the enzymes from green coffee bean and M. vinacea, while they scarcely acted on the 3- and 4-deoxy compounds. On the other hand, A. niger alpha-galactosidase hydrolyzed only the 2-deoxy compound in these deoxy substrates, and the activity was very high. These results indicate that the presence of two hydroxyl groups (OH-3 and -4) is essential for the compounds to act as substrates for the enzymes of green coffee bean and M. vinacea, while the three hydroxyl groups (OH-3, -4, and -6) are necessary for the activity of the A. niger enzyme. The kinetic parameters (K(m) and Vmax) of the enzymes for the hydrolysis of PNP alpha-D-galactopyranoside and its deoxy derivatives were obtained from kinetic studies. 
22799754	20120718	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Solid-state fermentation of soybean and corn processing coproducts for potential feed improvement.	Two agro-industrial coproducts, soybean cotyledon fiber and distiller's dried grains with solubles (DDGS), were used as substrates to evaluate the effect of coculturing three different fungi, Aspergillus oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, and Phanerochaete chrysosporium, on enzyme production by solid-state fermentation (SSF). When soybean fiber was used as the substrate, a maximum xylanase activity of 757.4 IU/g and a cellulase activity of 3.2 IU/g were achieved with the inoculation and incubation of T. reesei and P. chrysosporium for 36 h, followed by A. oryzae for an additional 108 h. This inoculation scheme also resulted in the highest xylanase activity of 399.2 IU/g compared to other fungi combinations in the SSF of DDGS. A large-scale SSF by this fungus combination produced fermented products that had xylanase and cellulase activities of 35.9-57.0 and 0.4-1.2 IU/g, respectively. These products also had 3.5-15.1% lower fiber and 1.3-4.2% higher protein contents, suggesting a potential feed quality improvement. 
8959766	19961201	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013485 	Immunoaffinity chromatographic purification of cellobiohydrolase II mutants from recombinant trichoderma reesei strains devoid of major endoglucanase genes.	Efficient purification of Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase II (CBHII) requires the use of affinity chromatography based on a substrate analogue. Due to altered substrate binding, the purification of many active-site mutants of CBHII from the complex fungal culture media represents a considerable challenge. Here we describe a combination of two approaches to facilitate the purification: the first is based on the construction of novel engineered T. reesei strains devoid of the major contaminating endoglucanases, and the second uses immunoaffinity chromatography as the final purification step. Two different procedures for the preparation of the antibody matrix were tested. Crosslinking of the monoclonal antibody to Protein G matrix instead of the conventional immobilization via cyanogen bromide increased the binding efficiency. Three different active-site mutants of CBHII bound to the immunoaffinity column in neutral pH and were eluted in pH 2.7. The purity of the CBHII mutant preparations was tested using small chromophoric substrates and hydroxyethyl cellulose, which are hydrolyzed by many other cellulases but not by CBHII. The immunoaffinity column purified the CBHII mutants over 800-fold in a single step and resulted in homogeneous protein preparations free of proteolytically cleaved forms of CBHII. The use of the double replacement T. reesei production strains, especially the one lacking the genes coding for both the endogeneous CBHII and the endoglucanase II (EGII), helped to reduce the total endoglucanase activity in the preparations. 
10718854	20000316	Clin._Exp._Allergy	D016428 D013485 	Is fungal alpha-amylase in bread an allergen?	The enzyme alpha-amylase from Aspergillus oryzae used in bakeries to improve the bread quality has been identified as an inhalative allergen in baker's asthma. It is doubtful whether this enzyme can induce allergic sensitization in regular bread consumers. To find out whether fungal alpha-amylase in bread and rolls retains its antibody-binding capacity and allergenicity after the baking procedure. Rabbit antibodies directed to fungal alpha-amylase were used for the development of a two-site enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). This assay was used to analyse different fractions of bread and rolls baked with the usual amounts of alpha-amylase in comparison with control products without added enzyme. Competitive experiments between bakers' sera containing specific immunoglobulin (Ig) E to alpha-amylase and the rabbit antibodies were performed. Additionally, specific IgE binding to fungal alpha-amylase was inhibited by native or heated alpha-amylase. With the highly specific two-site ELISA for native alpha-amylase in the crust of bread bottom and sides, 2.3-7 ng antigenic alpha-amylase per gram crust were measured. No alpha-amylase could be detected in the crumb fractions. Rabbit antibodies to native alpha-amylase completely inhibited human IgE binding to alpha-amylase allergen disks. The results prove residual antibody-binding capacity of alpha-amylase in bread crusts and in the crust of some rolls. In comparison with the content of alpha-amylase in dough, between 0.1 and 20% of the antibody-binding capacity remained. 
8424940	19930202	Biochemistry	D016428 	Functional roles of the invariant aspartic acid 55, tyrosine 306, and aspartic acid 309 in glucoamylase from Aspergillus awamori studied by mutagenesis.	Three mutants, Asp55-Gly, Tyr306-->Phe, and Asp309-->Asn, of Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase (identical to Aspergillus niger glucoamylase) were constructed to elucidate the roles of two conserved regions within fungal glucoamylases. Kinetic studies indicate that both of these regions are closely associated with activity. The Asp55-->Gly mutation decreases the kcat approximately 200 times toward maltose and isomaltose, while KM values remain similar to the wild-type. This localizes Asp55 to subsite 1 of glucoamylase where it affects catalytic activity, but not ground-state binding. The pKa value of the catalytic general acid, Glu179, is 1 pH unit lower in that mutant compared to wild-type enzyme, confirming the proximity of Asp55 to the site of catalysis. Tyr306-->Phe is highly active, but affects binding in subsite 2. It moreover shows enhanced binding in the fourth subsite, suggesting that the conserved region around residue 306 interacts with Trp120, a critical residue that directs conformational changes stabilizing the transition-state structure. Finally, the Asp309-->Asn mutation decreases the kcat for isomaltose hydrolysis around 200-fold, but only 30-fold for maltose. This specific effect on the hydrolysis of the alpha-1,6-linked substrate locates Asp309 to subsite 2. Substitution of Asp309 influences affinities of distant subsites, especially subsite 4, similar to mutations of other carboxylic acid residues situated near subsites 1 and 2. 
24275596	20131127	Acta._Biol._Hung.	D016428 D013485 	Interactions between naturally occurring antifungal agents.	Pairwise interactions between four antifungal compounds were studied. The β-1,3-glucan synthase inhibitor echinocandin B (ECB) showed synergistic effect with the cell wall hydrolase ChiB chitinase and EngA β-1,3-glucanase on Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, Aspergillus rugulosus and A. fumigatus. The antifungal protein of Penicillium chrysogenum (PAF) did not influence the antifungal activity of ChiB or EngA, but showed antagonistic effect with ECB on A. nidulans, A. rugulosus and A. fumigatus. PAF had no significant effect on the growth of the tested yeasts as it was expected and did not influence significantly the antifungal activity of ECB, ChiB or EngA against yeasts.  
20060702	20100112	Waste_Manag	D016428 	Functional changes in culturable microbial communities during a co-composting process: carbon source utilization and co-metabolism.	Microbial communities in sewage sludge and green waste co-composting were investigated using culture-dependent methods and community level physiological profiles (CLPP) with Biolog Microplate. Different microbial groups characterized each stage of composting. Bacterial densities were high from beginning to end of composting, whereas actinomycete densities increased only after bio-oxidation phase i.e. after 40days. Fungal populations become particularly high during the last stage of decomposition. Cluster analyses of metabolic profiles revealed a similar separation between two groups of composts at 67days for bacteria and fungi. Principal component analysis (PCA) applied to bacterial and fungal CLPP data showed a chronological distribution of composts with two phases. The first one (before 67days), where the composts were characterized by the rapid decomposition of non-humic biodegradable organic matter, was significantly correlated to the decrease of C, C/N, organic matter (OM), fulvic acid (FA), respiration, cellulase, protease, phenoloxidase, alkaline and acid phosphatases activities. The second phase corresponding to the formation of polycondensed humic-like substances was significantly correlated to humic acid (HA) content, pH and HA/FA. The influent substrates selected on both factorial maps showed that microbial communities could adapt their metabolic capacities to the particular environment. The first phase seems to be focused on easily degradable substrate utilization whereas the maturation phase appears as multiple metabolisms, which induce the release of metabolites and their polymerization leading to humification processes. 
22112620	20111125	Enzyme_Microb._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Structural change in wood by brown rot fungi and effect on enzymatic hydrolysis.	The effects of biological pretreatment on Pinus radiata and Eucalyptus globulus, were evaluated after exposure to two brown rot fungi Gloephylum trabeum and Laetoporeus sulphureus. Changes in chemical composition, structural modification, and susceptibility to enzymatic hydrolysis in the degraded wood were analyzed. After eight weeks of biodegradation, the greatest loss of weight and hemicellulose were 13% and 31%, respectively, for P. radiata with G. trabeum. The content of glucan decreased slightly, being the highest loss of 20% for E. globulus with G. trabeum. Consistent with degradation mechanism of these fungi, lignin was essentially undegraded by both brown rot fungi. Both brown rot fungi cause a sharp reduction in the cellulose degree of polymerization (DP) in the range between 58% and 79%. G. trabeum depolymerized cellulose in both wood faster than L. sulphureus. Also, structural characteristic of crystalline cellulose were measured by using two different techniques - X-ray diffraction (XRD) and infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). The biological pretreatments showed an effect on cellulose crystallinity structure, a decrease between 6% and 21% was obtained in the crystallinity index (CrI) calculated by IR, no changes were observed in the XRD. Material digestibility was evaluated by enzymatic hydrolysis, the conversion of cellulose to glucose increased with the biotreatment time. The highest enzymatic hydrolysis yields were obtained when saccharification was performed on wood biopretreated with G. trabeum (14% P. radiata and 13% E. globulus). Decreasing in DP and CrI, and hemicellulose removal result in an increase of enzymatic hydrolysis performance. Digestibility was better related to DP than with other properties. G. trabeum can be considered as a potential fungus for biological pretreatment, since it provides an effective process in breaking the wood structure, making it potentially useful in the development of combined pretreatments (biological-chemical). A viable alternative to pretreatment process that can be used is a bio-mimetic system, similar to low-molecular complexes generated by fungi such as G. trabeum combined pretreatments (biological-chemical). 
9540814	19980416	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Correlation between stationary phase survival and acid trehalase activity in yeast.	The levels of two trehalose hydrolysing enzymes, acid trehalase (AT) and neutral trehalase (NT), have been investigated in Candida utilis at different stages of growth; in complete contrast to Saccharomyces cerevisiae, significant AT activity appears to be absent at all stages of growth studied in C. utilis. In addition, presence of only very low amounts of iso-aspartyl methyl transferase (IMT) activity at the onset of stationary phase and lower survival ability in early stationary phase in contrast to that of S. cerevisiae lend support to the ideas that (a) lower degree of survival of C. utilis in the stationary phase may be a direct consequence of inability to mobilise stored trehalose due to absence of intracellular AT and reduced levels of IMT activities and (b) trehalose may have a dual role vis-à-vis stress resistance in yeasts. 
3606104	19870601	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Cellulases and xylanase of an anaerobic rumen fungus grown on wheat straw, wheat straw holocellulose, cellulose, and xylan.	The activities of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes produced by an anaerobic fungus (R1) which resembled Neocallimastix sp. were investigated. Carboxymethylcellulase (CMCase), cellobiase, and filter paper (FPase) activities had pH optima of 6.0, 5.5, and 6.0, respectively. CMCase and cellobiase activities both had a temperature optimum of 50 degrees C, whereas FPase had an optimum of 45 degrees C. The pH and temperature optima for xylanase activity were pH 6.0 and 50 degrees C, respectively. Growth of the fungus on wheat straw, wheat straw holocellulose, or cellulose resulted in substantial colonization, with at least 43 to 58% losses in substrate dry matter and accumulation of comparable amounts of formate. This end product was correlated to apparent loss of substrate dry weight and could be used as an indicator of fungal growth. Milling of wheat straw did not enhance the rate or extent of substrate degradation. Growth of the R1 isolate on the above substrates or xylan also resulted in accumulation of high levels of xylanase activity and lower cellulase activities. Of the cellulases, CMCase was the most active and was associated with either low or trace amounts of cellobiase and FPase activities. During growth on xylan, reducing sugars, including arabinose and xylose, rapidly accumulated in the medium. Xylose and other reducing sugars, but not arabinose, were subsequently used for growth. Reducing sugars also accumulated, but not as rapidly, when the fungus was grown on wheat straw, wheat straw holocellulose, or cellulose. Xylanase activities detected during growth of R1 on media containing glucose, xylose, or cellobiose suggested that enzyme production was constitutive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 
10705459	20000308	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular characterization of a novel yeast cell-wall acid phosphatase cloned from Kluyveromyces marxianus.	A novel Kluyveromyces marxianus gene that encodes an acid phosphatase, Pho610, was cloned in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The deduced amino acid sequence was distinct from S. cerevisiae phosphatases but similar to some fungal enzymes. A peculiar feature of the sequence is that it has hydrophobic stretches both at the N- and C-termini, which is a characteristic of the precursors of glycosylphosphatidylinositol(GPI)-anchored proteins. When the gene was expressed in S. cerevisiae, the active enzyme was recovered in the periplasmic fraction by glucanase digestion. The Pho610 polypeptide was highly glycosylated and a significant portion was covalently linked to the cell-wall glucan. The enzyme was secreted when the C-terminal region was truncated to remove the GPI signal. Therefore, Pho610 is a novel cell-wall protein having an enzyme activity. 
15917601	20050527	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic hydrolysis of steam-exploded and ethanol organosolv-pretreated Douglas-Firby novel and commercial fungal cellulases.	Softwood residues are the most abundant feedstock available for bioconversion in many northern countries. However, the high costs for delignification and enzymatic hydrolysis currently deter commercialization of softwood bioconversion processes. This study evaluates the abilities of two novel fungal preparations (MSUBC1 and MSUBC2) and two commercial cellulase preparations (TR1 and TR2) to hydrolyze cellulose in Douglas-firpretreated by steam explosion or ethanol organosolv process. MSUBC1 showed significantly better performance than the other preparations on both lignocellulosic substrates. In particular, MSUBC1 achieved >76% cellulose conversion for hydrolysis of steam-exploded Douglas-fir (approximately 44% lignin) after 72 h at low enzyme loading (10 filter paper units/g of cellulose) and without beta-glucosidase supplementation. 
22209690	20120103	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 	Stiffness of Ca(2+)-pectin gels: combined effects of degree and pattern of methylesterification for various Ca(2+) concentrations.	The influence of the degree and pattern of methylesterification (DM and PM, respectively) on the stiffness of Ca(2+)-pectin gels is extensively examined, at various Ca(2+) concentrations. Accordingly, a highly methyl-esterified pectin was selectively de-esterified using NaOH, plant or fungal pectin methylesterase in order to produce series of pectins with varied pattern and broad ranges of methylesterification. The PM was quantified as absolute degree of blockiness (DB(abs)). Ca(2+)-pectin gels were prepared at various Ca(2+) concentrations. Gel stiffness (G' at 1rad/s) was determined and mapped out as a function of DM, DB(abs) and Ca(2+) concentration. At low Ca(2+) concentrations, G' depends on polymer's DM and DB(abs). At high Ca(2+) concentrations, a master curve is obtained over a wide range of DM, irrespective of DB(abs). Depending on methylesterification pattern, increase of G' is related not only to an increase in the number of junction zones per pectin chain, but also to an increase in the size of junction zones and the number of dimerised chains occurring in the gels. These results provide a detailed insight into the occurrence of junction zones in Ca(2+)-pectin gels. 
22736599	20120628	Cytoskeleton_(Hoboken)	D016428 D052061 D013485 D016454 	Mechanisms of cytokinesis in budding yeast.	Cytokinesis is essential for cell proliferation in all domains of life. Because the core components and mechanisms of cytokinesis are conserved from fungi to humans, the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has served as an attractive model for studying this fundamental process. Cytokinesis in budding yeast is driven by two interdependent cellular events: actomyosin ring (AMR) constriction and the formation of a chitinous cell wall structure called the primary septum (PS), the functional equivalent of extracellular matrix remodeling during animal cytokinesis. AMR constriction is thought to drive efficient plasma membrane ingression as well as to guide PS formation, whereas PS formation is thought to stabilize the AMR during its constriction. Following the completion of the PS formation, two secondary septa (SS), consisting of glucans and mannoproteins, are synthesized at both sides of the PS. Degradation of the PS and a part of the SS by a chitinase and glucanases then enables cell separation. In this review, we discuss the mechanics of cytokinesis in budding yeast, highlighting its common and unique features as well as the emerging questions. 
18825950	20081002	Genetika	D016428 D016454 	[Chitinases in bioengeneering research].	Techniques of introduction of foreign genes into the plant genome have been intensely developed in order to directionally improve properties of crops. One of the key directions in plant bioengineering is searching for and analyzing promising genes, in particular, to construct genotypes with high resistance to pathogens and pests. In this review, the use for this purpose of transgenes coding for chitinase family enzymes is considered. Many of these transgenes have proved to be efficient factors for elevating plant resistance to pathogenic fungi. 
8464071	19930320	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 	Crystals of beta-xylanase from Aspergillus oryzae.	An endo-xylanase was isolated from the culture of fungus Aspergillus oryzae variant D5. The purified enzyme had a molecular weight of 24,000 and the isoelectric point of 3.6. Xylanase crystals were obtained from a polyethylene glycol 6000 solution by the hanging-drop method. Seeding was used for the enlargement of the crystal size. Crystals belong to the monoclinic space group P2(1) with cell dimensions a = 54.9 A, b = 74.5 A, c = 50.8 A, and beta = 108.7 degrees. Crystals diffract beyond 2.5 A resolution. 
21818611	20110806	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D016428 D013485 	Biochemical and molecular characterization of wild-type and fused protoplasts of Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae.	Protoplasts were isolated from two isolates each of Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae using lysing enzymes. Intra- and intergeneric protoplast fusion has been carried out using 40% polyethylene glycol. The fused protoplasts of B. bassiana and M. anisopliae have been regenerated on Czapek-Dox agar media, and a total of four fusants were selected for further studies. An increase in proteinase and chitinase enzyme activity was recorded with all fusants as compared to the wild-type isolates. To understand the nature of recombination process, random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) were carried out on genomic DNA of fused and wild-type isolates. The present study demonstrates the scope and significance of the protoplast fusion technique as a rapid consistent method for identification of B. bassiana and M. anisopliae fused and wild-type isolates based on the banding pattern of RAPD and RFLP that can be reliably used ahead for further applications on these species. 
22280964	20120128	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Functional analysis of FarA transcription factor in the regulation of the genes encoding lipolytic enzymes and hydrophobic surface binding protein for the degradation of biodegradable plastics in Aspergillus oryzae.	FarA is a Zn(II)(2)Cys(6) transcription factor which upregulates genes required for growth on fatty acids in filamentous fungi like Aspergillus nidulans. FarA is also highly similar to the cutinase transcription factor CTF1α of Fusarium solani which binds to the cutinase gene promoter in this plant pathogen. This study determines whether FarA transcriptional factor also works in the regulation of genes responsible for the production of cutinase for the degradation of a biodegradable plastic, poly-(butylene succinate-co-adipate) (PBSA), in Aspergillus oryzae. The wild-type and the farA gene disruption strains were grown in minimal agar medium with emulsified PBSA, and the wild-type showed clear zone around the colonies while the disruptants did not. Western blot analysis revealed that the cutinase protein CutL1 and a hydrophobic surface binding protein such as HsbA were produced by the wild-type but not by the disruptants. In addition, the expressions of cutL1, triacylglycerol lipase (tglA), and mono- and di-acylglycerol lipase (mdlB) genes as well as the hsbA gene were significantly lower in the disruptants compared to the wild-type. These results indicated that the FarA transcriptional factor would be implicated in the expression of cutL1 and hsbA genes that are required for the degradation of PBSA as well as lipolytic genes such as mdlB and tglA for lipid hydrolysis. 
12369923	20021009	Curr._Protein_Pept._Sci.	D003160 D016428 D016454 	Chitinolytic enzymes: catalysis, substrate binding, and their application.	After the epoch-making report on X-ray crystal structure of a lysozyme-N-acetylglucosamine trisaccharide complex in 1967, catalytic mechanisms of glycosyl hydrolases have been discussed with reference to the lysozyme mechanism. From the recent findings of chitinolytic enzymes, however, the enzymes were found to have catalytic and substrate binding mechanisms different from those of lysozyme. Based on the X-ray crystal structures of chitinases and their complexes with substrate analogues, the catalytic mechanisms were discussed considering the relative locations of catalytic residues to the bound substrate analogues. Resembling the lysozyme catalytic center, family 19 chitinases, family 46 chitosanases, and family 23 lysozymes have two carboxyl groups at the catalytic center, which are separated (> 10 +) on either side of the catalytic cleft. The catalytic reaction of the enzymes takes place through a single displacement mechanism. In family 18 chitinases, one can identify only one catalytic carboxylate as a proton donor, but not the second catalytic carboxylate whose function and location are similar to those of Asp52 in lysozyme. The catalytic reaction of family 18 chitinases is most likely to take place through a substrate-assisted mechanism. Hen egg white lysozyme has the binding cleft represented by (-4)(-3)(-2)(-1)(+1)(+2). The binding cleft of family 19 chitinases, family 46 chitosanases, and family 23 lysozymes, however, is represented by (-3)(-2)(-1)(+1)(+2)(+3). Molecular dynamics calculation suggests that family 18 chitinases have the binding cleft, (-4)(-3)(-2)(-1)(+1)(+2). The functional diversity of the chitinolytic enzymes might be related to different physiological functions of the enzymes. The enzymes are now being applied to plant protection from fungal pathogens and insect pests. Structure of the targeted chitinous component was determined by a combination of enzyme digestion and solid state CP/MAS NMR spectroscopy, and have been taken into consideration for efficient application of the enzymes. Recent understanding of the catalytic and substrate binding mechanisms would be helpful as well for arrangement of a powerful strategy in such an application. 
21906369	20110913	AMB_Express	D016428 	Enhancement of β-xylosidase productivity in cellulase producing fungus Acremonium cellulolyticus.	 Enzymatic hydrolysis is one of the most important processes in bioethanol production from lignocellulosic biomass. Acremonium cellulolyticus is a filamentous fungus with high cellulase production but productivity of hemicellulase, especially β-xylosidase, is lower than other filamentous fungi. We identified 2.4 Kb β-xylosidase gene in the A. cellulolyticus genome sequence information and it encoded 798 amino acids without introns. To enhance hemicellulase productivity in A. cellulolyticus, we transformed this fungus with the identified β-xylosidase gene driven by the cellobiohydrolase Ι (cbh1) promoter, using the protoplast-polyethyleneglycol (PEG) method, and obtained a transformant, YKX1. Hydrolysis rate of xylooligosaccharides was more than 50-fold higher using culture supernatant from YKX1 than that from the parental strain, Y-94. Total cellulase activity (measured by filter paper assay) in YKX1 was not affected by the cbh1 promoter used for expression of β-xylosidase, and induced by cellulose. Since YKX1 can produce larger amount of β-xylosidase without affecting cellulase productivity, it is considered to be beneficial for practical monosaccharide recoveries from lignocellulosic biomass. 
23047100	20121011	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and partial characterization of an acidic α-glucan-protein complex from the fruiting body of Pleurotus sajor-caju and its effect on macrophage activation.	The aim of this study was to purify an acidic α-glucan-protein complex from the fruiting bodies of Pleurotus sajor-caju by using the cell wall-degrading enzymes, xylanase and cellulase. The acidic glucan-protein complex was separated from a polysaccharide extract by using DEAE Toyopearl 650M anion-exchange and Sepharose CL-6B chromatography. Its homogeneity was ensured by high-performance size-exclusion chromatography and agarose gel electrophoresis. The acidic glucan-protein complex had a molecular weight of approximately 182 kDa. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy of the acidic glucan-protein complex revealed an α-glycosidic bond and the typical characteristics of polysaccharides and proteins. The amino acid composition of the protein moiety was dominated by proline, glycine, glutamic acid and aspartic acid, indicating that the protein was highly flexible and had a negative charge. Atomic force microscopy proved that the acidic α-glucan-protein complex existed in a spherical conformation. The acidic α-glucan-protein complex stimulated the activation of macrophages, including the production of nitric oxide and tumor necrosis factor-α. 
21945728	20110928	J_Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	iTRAQ-based quantitative secretome analysis of Phanerochaete chrysosporium.	The basidiomycete fungi such as Phanerochaete chrysosporium secrete large amount of hydrolytic and oxidative enzymes and degrade lignocellulosic biomass. The lignin depolymerizing proteins were extensively studied, but cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin hydrolyzing enzymes were poorly explored. In this study P. chrysosporium was grown in cellulose, lignin and mixture of cellulose and lignin, and secretory proteins were quantified by isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based quantitative proteomics using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). An iTRAQ quantified 117 enzymes comprising cellulose hydrolyzing endoglucanases, exoglucanases, beta-glucosidases; hemicelluloses hydrolyzing xylanases, acetylxylan esterases, mannosidases, mannanases; pectin-degrading enzymes polygalacturonase, rhamnogalacturonase, arabinose and lignin degrading protein belonging to oxidoreductase family. Under cellulose and cellulose with lignin culture conditions, enzymes such as endoglucanases, exoglucanases, β-glucosidases and cellobiose dehydrogenase were significantly upregulated and iTRAQ data suggested hydrolytic and oxidative cellulose degradation. When lignin was used as a major carbon source, enzymes such as copper radical oxidase, isoamyl oxidase, glutathione S-transferase, thioredoxin peroxidase, quinone oxidoreductase, aryl alcohol oxidase, pyranose 2-oxidase, aldehyde dehydrogenase, and alcohol dehydrogenase were expressed and significantly regulated. This study explored cellulose, hemicellulose, pectin and lignin degrading enzymes of P. chrysosporium that are valuable for lignocellulosic bioenergy. 
24420197	20140115	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	The role of fungal polysaccharidases in the hydrolysis of cell wall materials from sunflower and palm-kernel meals.	Main fractions from multi-component polysaccharidase preparations (Driselase, Gamanase and an experimental preparation of fungal origin), previously used for the enzymic treatment of cell wall materials from sunflower and palm-kernel meals, were sub-fractionated by different chromatographic techniques to evaluate the contribution of each of their constituent activities in cell wall degradation. Based on activity measurements, 5- to 10-fold purification was achieved for the major enzymes but residual side-activities were still detectable in most sub-fractions. Solubilization of non-starch polysaccharides from the cell wall materials by the resulting pectolytic, xylanolytic, cellulolytic and mannanolytic sub-fractions and by highly purified glucanases, arabinanases and xylanases was, when acting individually, very low (1% to 5%). With few exceptions, the solubilizing effect of the main fractions could only be slightly enhanced by supplementation with pectolytic, cellulolytic or mannanolytic sub-fractions or by highly purified enzymes. The extent of solubilization remained mostly lower than the sum of both individually obtained values. In the degradation of palm-kernel cell wall material, however, synergistic action of mannanases and glucanases was observed. The hydrolysis of pectic compounds in sunflower cell wall material was most effective when polygalacturonases, arabinanases and rhamnogalacturonan-degrading activities were applied together. The resistance of 4-O-methyl-glucuronoxylan, the major hemicellulosic polymer in the cell wall material from sunflower meal, to enzymic hydrolysis was not only caused by its location in the cell wall or interlinkage to other polymers but also by its primary structure. Neither purified endo-xylanase nor the crude parent preparation were able to achieve complete hydrolysis of this polysaccharide after extraction.  
9508797	19980523	Curr._Genet.	D016428 D013485 	A cutinase-encoding gene from Phytophthora capsici isolated by differential-display RT-PCR.	To detect and ultimately isolate genes of Phytophthora capsici the expression of which is induced during its interaction with pepper, a comparative analysis of gene expression in the wild-type pathogenic fungus with expression in a non-pathogenic (Nop) mutant reduced in cutinase and esterase activities was performed by the differential display of mRNAs. Discrimination of fungal genes induced in planta, from plant genes induced in response to the pathogen, was accomplished by exposure of the mycelium to bare-rooted seedlings of pepper (Capsicum annuum) in sterile water, to allow the initiation of infection, and then physical removal of the induced mycelium. With six sets of primer combinations, eight cDNA fragments (representing fungal genes) were present in planta only for the pathogenic strain. RNA-blot analysis showed that the transcripts detected accumulated to detectable levels only at early stages of the interaction. Sequence analysis and database searches revealed homology of one of the cDNA clones to fungal cutinases. The 218 amino-acid sequence predicted from sequencing a genomic clone of P. capsici suggested a protein of molecular weight of 23 980 Da with similarity to fungal cutinases previously characterized. These results indicated that differential-display analysis is sufficiently sensitive to be applied for the detection and isolation of fungal genes induced during a plant-pathogen interaction. 
1557024	19920301	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 	Disruption of a Magnaporthe grisea cutinase gene.	Using a one-step strategy to disrupt CUT1, a gene for cutinase, cut1- mutants were generated in two strains of Magnaporthe grisea. One strain, pathogenic on weeping lovegrass and barley and containing the arg3-12 mutation, was transformed with a disruption vector in which the Aspergillus nidulans ArgB+ gene was inserted into CUT1. Prototrophic transformants were screened by Southern hybridization, and 3 of 53 tested contained a disrupted CUT1 gene (cut1::ArgB+). A second strain, pathogenic on rice, was transformed with a disruption vector in which a gene for hyg B resistance was inserted into CUT1. Two of the 57 transformants screened by Southern hybridization contained a disrupted CUT1 gene (cut1::Hyg). CUT1 mRNA was not detectable in transformants that contained a disrupted gene. Transformants with a disrupted CUT1 gene failed to produce a cutin-inducible esterase that is normally detected by activity staining on non-denaturing polyacrylamide gels. Enzyme activity, measured either with tritiated cutin or with p-nitrophenyl butyrate as a substrate, was reduced but not eliminated in strains with a disrupted CUT1 gene. The infection efficiency of the cut1- disruption transformants was equal to that of the parent strains on all three host plants. Lesions produced by these mutants had an appearance and a sporulation rate similar to those produced by the parent strains. We conclude that the M. grisea CUT1 gene is not required for pathogenicity. 
15462530	20041007	Microbiol._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and biochemical characterization of polygalacturonase II produced in semi-solid medium by a strain of Fusarium moniliforme.	A strain of Fusarium moniliforme isolated from a tropical mangrove ecosystem near Mumbai, India and deposited in the National Collection of Industrial Microorganisms (NCIM) as F. moniliforme NCIM 1276. The organism produced a single extracellular polygalacturonase (PG I) [EC 3.2.1.15] at pH 5 and a single pectate lyase (PL) [EC 4.2.2.2] at pH 8 in liquid medium containing 1% citrus pectin. Growth on semi-solid medium containing wheat bran and orange pulp resulted in a three-fold increase in PG production and a two-fold increase in PL production in comparison with that in liquid medium. The increased production of PG on semi-solid media, as compared to production in liquid media was investigated. The increased production of PG was partly due to the expression of a second polygalacturonase (PG II) isoenzyme by the fungus which was biochemically different from the one produced in liquid medium. The second PG II was a 30.6kDa enzyme, had an alkaline pI of 8.6, the Km was 0.166mg ml(-1), Vmax 13.33 micromol min(-1) mg(-1) and the kcat was 403 min(-1). It had a specific activity of 18.66U mg(-1). The differences between the PGs (PG I and PG II) suggest that the two enzymes are the products of different genes. The fungus also produced the same two PGs when it infected Lycopersicon esculentum (tomato). Only one PL was produced irrespective of growth conditions. 
11445176	20010711	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Transcriptional regulation of laccase and cellulase genes during growth and fruiting of Lentinula edodes on supplemented sawdust.	Transcription of laccase and cellulase genes of Lentinula edodes was examined during growth and development under different temperature and moisture levels on a sawdust-based substrate. RNA was extracted from samples of mycelium and fruit bodies at various stages of development and gene expression was determined by competitive RT-PCR. The level of laccase transcripts was maximal during the mycelial growth stage, and then declined rapidly at the fruiting stage. In contrast, the cellulase transcript level peaked at the veil-break stage during fruit body development. Gene expressions for laccase and cellulase were triggered by microclimatic changes, specifically lower temperature and osmotic pressure. 
15514050	20041030	Genetics	D016428 D013487 	Mutations in SIN4 and RGR1 cause constitutive expression of MAL structural genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Transcription of the Saccharomyces MAL structural genes is induced 40-fold by maltose and requires the MAL-activator and maltose permease. To identify additional players involved in regulating MAL gene expression, we carried out a genetic selection for MAL constitutive mutants. Strain CMY4000 containing MAL1 and integrated copies of MAL61promoter-HIS3 and MAL61promoter-lacZ reporter genes was used to select constitutive mutants. The 29 recessive mutants fall into at least three complementation groups. Group 1 and group 2 mutants exhibit pleiotropic phenotypes and represent alleles of Mediator component genes RGR1 and SIN4, respectively. The rgr1 and sin4 constitutive phenotype does not require either the MAL-activator or maltose permease, indicating that Mediator represses MAL basal expression. Further genetic analysis demonstrates that RGR1 and SIN4 work in a common pathway and each component of the Mediator Sin4 module plays a distinct role in regulating MAL gene expression. Additionally, the Swi/Snf chromatin-remodeling complex is required for full induction, suggesting a role for chromatin remodeling in the regulation of MAL gene expression. A sin4Delta mutation is unable to suppress the defects in MAL gene expression resulting from loss of the Swi/Snf complex component Snf2p. The role of the Mediator in MAL gene regulation is discussed. 
8513339	19930301	Transgenic_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Glucoamylase overexpression in Aspergillus niger: molecular genetic analysis of strains containing multiple copies of the glaA gene.	A strategy, based on the usage of the amdS selection marker and a cosmid vector containing four copies of the glucoamylase gene (glaA), was developed to obtain glucoamylase (GLA)-overproducing A. niger strains. With this strategy, fungal strains carrying up to 200 copies of the glaA gene could be isolated at a relatively high frequency. In each transformant analysed, integration occurred in a single chromosome. A significant increase in the extracellular GLA production was observed in most of the transformants carrying multiple copies of the glaA gene. Further analysis showed that the amount of GLA that is produced was not proportional to the number of glaA copies in these transformants. However, the level of GLA production clearly correlated with the amount of glaA mRNA produced in these transformants. From these results it is concluded that GLA production is limited at the level of transcription. 
16175368	20050922	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Production of glucoamylase in pyruvate decarboxylase deletion mutants of the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis.	Yeasts are widely used as hosts for the production of diverse heterologous proteins ranging from laboratory scale to industrial scale. The aim of this work is to provide new tools for the production of heterologous proteins in the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis. The promoter of the single gene (KlPDC1) encoding pyruvate decarboxylase is strong, inducible, and responsive to the presence of fermentable sugars and anoxic conditions in this yeast. Expression of KlPDC1 is repressed by ethanol and by autoregulation, a mechanism that involves protein KlPdc1. We constructed a heterologous gene expression cassette for a secreted protein (glucoamylase, GAM) under the control of the KlPDC1 promoter on a stable multicopy plasmid. GAM production by wild-type transformed strains was compared with that of klpdc1-deleted transformants. We obtained higher GAM production in the latter strains, which was due to continued expression of the GAM gene during the stationary phase rather than due to GAM transcription levels higher than the wild-type strains during growth phase. This finding opens new perspectives on the physiology of the stationary phase in K. lactis and suggests the possibility of using high-cell-density approaches for the efficient production of heterologous proteins with this yeast. 
4091550	19851101	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013486 	Subcellular fractionation of a hypercellulolytic mutant, Trichoderma reesei Rut-C30: localization of endoglucanase in microsomal fraction.	The growing mycelia of Trichoderma reesei Rut-C30 are richly endowed with endoplasmic reticula and a variety of pleomorphic subcellular bodies. Mycelia of the culture growing in presence of avicel pH101 was fractionated in sucrose density gradients, and several morphologically and biochemically distinct fractions were isolated. Mycelia were homogenized in a Bead Beater, and the homogenate was freed of nucleus and wall fragments by low-speed centrifugation before fractionation. Organelle-free cytosol, which did not penetrate the gradient, contained (of the total) 72% of the vanadate-sensitive ATPase, 26% of carboxymethyl cellulase (CMCase), 2% of cytochrome c reductase, and 13% of the protein. Significant fractions separated on a gradient were light vesicles containing heavily stained material inside and ribosomes attached to the outside surface, intact vesicles resembling condensing vacuoles, large vesicles derived from the plasma membrane, and heavy vesicles containing crystalline material. The light-vesicle fraction contained a large portion of the cell-bound CMCase activity. The particle-bound ATPase and cytochrome c reductase activities were concentrated in heavy fractions. The fractionation in the presence of MgCl2 improved the preservation of subcellular bodies derived from the endoplasmic reticula. Although the CMCase activity of the light-vesicle fraction was 4 times higher than the activity in the heavy-vesicle fraction, the CMCase antibody-binding capacities of both fractions were about the same. This discrepancy between the catalytic activity and the antibody-binding capacity suggests that the heavy vesicles might have contained considerable amount of inactive CMCase compared with that present in the light vesicles. 
21452798	20110402	J_Phys_Chem_B	D016428 D013486 	Examination of the α-chitin structure and decrystallization thermodynamics at the nanoscale.	Chitin is the primary structural material of insect and crustacean exoskeletons and fungal and algal cell walls, and as such it is the one of the most abundant biological materials on Earth. Chitin forms linear polymers of β1,4-linked-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc), and in Nature, enzyme cocktails deconstruct chitin to GlcNAc. The mechanism of chitin deconstruction, like that of cellulose deconstruction, has been under investigation due to its importance in the global carbon cycle and in production of renewable and sustainable products from biological matter. To further understand the nanoscale properties of chitin, here we simulate crystals of α-chitin, which is the most prevalent form in Nature. We find excellent agreement with the recently reported crystal structure and we report the salient features of the simulations related to crystalline stability. We also compute the thermodynamic work required to peel individual chains from α-chitin surfaces, which a chitinase enzyme must conduct to deconstruct chitin. Compared with previous simulations of native plant cellulose Iβ, α-chitin exhibits higher decrystallization work for chains in the middle of surfaces and similar work for chains on the edges of crystals. Unlike cellulose, the free energy profile is dominated by a single bifurcated hydrogen bond between chains formed by the GlcNAc side chains and the O6 atoms on the primary alcohol group. This study highlights the molecular features of chitin that make it such a tough, recalcitrant material, and provides a key thermodynamic parameter in our quantitative understanding of how enzymes contribute to the turnover of carbohydrates in the biosphere. 
9542155	19980516	J._Exp._Zool.	D016428 D013485 	alpha-Glucosidase from the hepatopancreas of the shrimp, Penaeus vannamei (Crustacea-Decapoda).	Penaeus vannamei is an omnivorous species, and it can be assumed that a high level of carbohydrates is necessary for growth. Alpha-glucosidases are important enzymes necessary for the ultimate liberation of glucose residues from various carbohydrates. Using acarbose affinity chromatography, a glycosylated alpha-glucosidase with a molecular mass of approximately 105 kDa was isolated for the first time from the hepatopancreas of the shrimp. Exhibiting an optimal catalytic activity in the temperature range from 40 degrees C to 50 degrees C at pH 6, the purified enzyme hydrolyses alpha 1-4 bonds and liberates glucose from different oligo and polysaccharides. By contrast to other known glucosidases, no alpha 1-6 glucose link with hydrolysis has been observed. This could explain the different rates of growth in shrimp aquaculture with starches from various origins. The amino-acid composition, together with the partial sequence of a hydrolytic peptide, shows a high degree of similarity to the alpha-glucosidases reported for various organisms including yeast and fungi and may help determine the phylogeny of the family. 
10320571	19990513	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Neutral trehalases catalyse intracellular trehalose breakdown in the filamentous fungi Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa.	A cAMP-activatable Ca2+-dependent neutral trehalase was identified in germinating conidia of Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa. Using a PCR approach, A. nidulans and N. crassa genes encoding homologues of the neutral trehalases found in several yeasts were cloned and sequenced. Disruption of the AntreB gene encoding A. nidulans neutral trehalase revealed that it is responsible for intracellular trehalose mobilization at the onset of conidial germination, and that this phenomenon is partially involved in the transient accumulation of glycerol in the germinating conidia. Although trehalose mobilization is not essential for the completion of spore germination and filamentous growth in A. nidulans, it is required to achieve wild-type germination rates under carbon limitation, suggesting that intracellular trehalose can partially contribute the energy requirements of spore germination. Furthermore, it was shown that trehalose accumulation in A. nidulans can protect germinating conidia against an otherwise lethal heat shock. Because transcription of the treB genes is not increased after a heat shock but induced upon heat shock recovery, it is proposed that, in filamentous fungi, mobilization of trehalose during the return to appropriate growth is promoted by transcriptional and post-translational regulatory mechanisms, in particular cAMP-dependent protein kinase-mediated phosphorylation. 
18306055	20080229	Transgenic_Res.	D016428 	Defence-related gene expression in transgenic lemon plants producing an antimicrobial Trichoderma harzianum endochitinase during fungal infection.	Constitutive over-expression of antifungal genes from microorganisms involved in plant defence mechanisms represents a promising strategy for conferring genetic resistance against a broad range of plant pathogenic fungi. In the present work, two transgenic lemon clones with the chit42 gene from Trichoderma harzianum were tested for resistance to fungal disease and expression level of defence-related genes was evaluated. Different resistance-related processes, such as production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), systemic acquired resistance (SAR) and induced systemic resistance (ISR), were monitored in transgenic and wild type lemon clones inoculated with Botrytis cinerea, the causal agent of grey mould in citrus. Expression of genes that encode gluthatione peroxidase (GPX), a producer of ROS, chitinases, glucanases (SAR), PAL, HPL, and AOS (ISR) was measured by quantitative PCR during the first 24 h after leaf inoculation. Leaves of transgenic lemon plants inoculated with B. cinerea showed significantly less lesion development than wild type leaves. Tissues from detached leaves of different transgenic lemon clones showed a significant correlation between resistance and transgene expression. On the other hand, the over-expression of the transgenic fungal gene enhanced by two-three folds transcript levels of genes associated with enhanced ROS production and ISR establishment, while the expression of native chitinase and glucanase genes involved in SAR was down-regulated. 
15575727	20041204	Biotechnol._Prog.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Extractive cultivation of xylanase by Penicillium janthinellum in a poly(ethylene glycol)/cashew-nut tree gum aqueous two-phase system.	Cultivation of the fungus Penicillium janthinellum for xylanase production was studied in a poly(ethylene glycol)/cashew-nut tree gum aqueous two-phase system, using a two-level fractional factorial design. The parameters studied were initial pH, cultivation time, type of agro-industrial residue (oat husk or corn cob), agitation, temperature, and phase-forming polymers. The xylanase produced during fermentation partitioned into the top phase. The agitation and temperature (negative), cultivation time and initial pH (positive) effects proved statistically significant for xylanase production. The highest percentage yield of the xylanase in the top and its production in the top phase, about 97% and 160.7 U/mL, were obtained in cultures of 120 h, 40 rpm, 25 degrees C, and pH 5.0. 
18705852	20080819	Mol._Plant_Pathol.	D016428 D013486 	Involvement of ZFR1 of Fusarium verticillioides in kernel colonization and the regulation of FST1, a putative sugar transporter gene required for fumonisin biosynthesis on maize kernels.	Fumonisins comprise a class of carcinogenic mycotoxins produced by Fusarium verticillioides during colonization of maize kernels. In previous work, we identified ZFR1, which is predicted to encode a Zn(II)2Cys6 zinc finger transcription factor required for fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) production during growth on kernels. In this study, we characterized the role of ZFR1 in colonizing maize kernels and inducing FB(1) biosynthesis. The ZFR1 deletion strain (Deltazfr1) grew approximately 2.5-fold less than the wild-type on endosperm tissue and a variety of other carbon sources, including glucose and amylopectin. However, the Deltazfr1 strain displayed higher alpha-amylase activity and expression of genes involved in starch saccharification than the wild-type, thus indicating that the reduced growth of the Deltazfr1 strain was not due to inhibition of amylolytic enzymes. In the wild-type strain, expression of six genes encoding putative sugar transporters was significantly greater on endosperm tissue than on germ tissue, and expression of at least three of the six genes was negatively affected by disruption of ZFR1. Intriguingly, disruption of FST1 had no effect on growth, kernel colonization or kernel pH but decreased FB(1) production by approximately 82% on maize kernels. Based on these findings, we hypothesize that ZFR1 controls FB(1) biosynthesis by regulating genes involved in the perception or uptake of carbohydrates. 
1044284	19760101	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Kinetic studies of alpha-galactosidase-containing mold pellets on PNPG hydrolysis.	Little is known about techniques for applying untreated microbial cells containing enzymes directly to industrial processes as a biocatalyst. The kinetic behavior of alpha-galactosidase-containing spherical pellets which are formed naturally under given conditions in a submerged culture of Mortierella vinacea was studied on the hydrolysis of PNPG (p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside). The effect on intraparticle diffusion on the overall reaction rate was assessed by the use of an effectiveness factor, which was calculated by the approximate solution to the equation derived from the mass balance within a pellet. The experimental effectiveness factors were found to be represented as a single function of the modified Thiele modulus, including such parameters as pellet size, enzyme concentration in the pellet, and substrate concentration. As the diffusional effect became more significant, the marked substrate inhibition as seen for a free enzyme disappeared gradually. The effect of product inhibition on the pellets was much weaker than that for a free enzyme at a given substrate concentration. In the region of diffusion controlled reaction, it was found that the rate is proportional to the square root of the enzyme concentration in the pellet. In addition, similarly to what was reported previously for a free enzyme,the reaction in a batch system was found to be approximately representable as simple first-order kinetics in which the rate constant was dependent on the initial substrate concentration. 
20922374	20101006	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Effects of a defective ERAD pathway on growth and heterologous protein production in Aspergillus niger.	Endoplasmic reticulum associated degradation (ERAD) is a conserved mechanism to remove misfolded proteins from the ER by targeting them to the proteasome for degradation. To assess the role of ERAD in filamentous fungi, we have examined the consequences of disrupting putative ERAD components in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger. Deletion of derA, doaA, hrdC, mifA, or mnsA in A. niger yields viable strains, and with the exception of doaA, no significant growth phenotype is observed when compared to the parental strain. The gene deletion mutants were also made in A. niger strains containing single- or multicopies of a glucoamylase-glucuronidase (GlaGus) gene fusion. The induction of the unfolded protein response (UPR) target genes (bipA and pdiA) was dependent on the copy number of the heterologous gene and the ERAD gene deleted. The highest induction of UPR target genes was observed in ERAD mutants containing multiple copies of the GlaGus gene. Western blot analysis revealed that deletion of the derA gene in the multicopy GlaGus overexpressing strain resulted in a 6-fold increase in the intracellular amount of GlaGus protein detected. Our results suggest that impairing some components of the ERAD pathway in combination with high expression levels of the heterologous protein results in higher intracellular protein levels, indicating a delay in protein degradation. 
16406624	20060113	Environ._Pollut.	D016428 	Impact of river overflowing on trace element contamination of volcanic soils in south Italy: part II. Soil biological and biochemical properties in relation to trace element speciation.	The effect of heavy metal contamination on biological and biochemical properties of Italian volcanic soils was evaluated in a multidisciplinary study, involving pedoenvironmental, micromorphological, physical, chemical, biological and biochemical analyses. Soils affected by recurring river overflowing, with Cr(III)-contaminated water and sediments, and a non-flooded control soil were analysed for microbial biomass, total and active fungal mycelium, enzyme activities (i.e., FDA hydrolase, dehydrogenase, beta-glucosidase, urease, arylsulphatase, acid phosphatase) and bacterial diversity (DGGE characterisation). Biological and biochemical data were related with both total and selected fractions of Cr and Cu (the latter deriving from agricultural chemical products) as well as with total and extractable organic C. The growth and activity of soil microbial community were influenced by soil organic C content rather than Cu or Cr contents. In fact, positive correlations between all studied parameters and organic C content were found. On the contrary, negative correlations were observed only between total fungal mycelium, dehydrogenase, arylsulphatase and acid phosphatase activities and only one Cr fraction (the soluble, exchangeable and carbonate bound). However, total Cr content negatively affected the eubacterial diversity but it did not determine changes in soil activity, probably because of the redundancy of functions within species of soil microbial community. On the other hand, expressing biological and biochemical parameters per unit of total organic C, Cu pollution negatively influenced microbial biomass, fungal mycelium and several enzyme activities, confirming soil organic matter is able to mask the negative effects of Cu on microbial community. 
22815939	20120721	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Two unique ligand-binding clamps of Rhizopus oryzae starch binding domain for helical structure disruption of amylose.	The N-terminal starch binding domain of Rhizopus oryzae glucoamylase (RoSBD) has a high binding affinity for raw starch. RoSBD has two ligand-binding sites, each containing a ligand-binding clamp: a polyN clamp residing near binding site I is unique in that it is expressed in only three members of carbohydrate binding module family 21 (CBM21) members, and a Y32/F58 clamp located at binding site II is conserved in several CBMs. Here we characterized different roles of these sites in the binding of insoluble and soluble starches using an amylose-iodine complex assay, atomic force microscopy, isothermal titration calorimetry, site-directed mutagenesis, and structural bioinformatics. RoSBD induced the release of iodine from the amylose helical cavity and disrupted the helical structure of amylose type III, thereby significantly diminishing the thickness and length of the amylose type III fibrils. A point mutation in the critical ligand-binding residues of sites I and II, however, reduced both the binding affinity and amylose helix disruption. This is the first molecular model for structure disruption of the amylose helix by a non-hydrolytic CBM21 member. RoSBD apparently twists the helical amylose strands apart to expose more ligand surface for further SBD binding. Repeating the process triggers the relaxation and unwinding of amylose helices to generate thinner and shorter amylose fibrils, which are more susceptible to hydrolysis by glucoamylase. This model aids in understanding the natural roles of CBMs in protein-glycan interactions and contributes to potential molecular engineering of CBMs. 
19775896	20090925	Bioorg._Med._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Pochonicine, a polyhydroxylated pyrrolizidine alkaloid from fungus Pochonia suchlasporia var. suchlasporia TAMA 87 as a potent beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase inhibitor.	A new polyhydroxylated pyrrolizidine alkaloid designated as pochonicine (1) was isolated from a solid fermentation culture of the fungal strain Pochonia suchlasporia var. suchlasporia TAMA 87. The structure of 1 was determined using NMR and MS techniques as (1R*, 3S*, 5S*, 6S*, 7R*, 7a S*)-5-acetamidomethyl-3-hydroxymethyl-1,6,7-trihydroxypyrrolizidine. Pochonicine (1) showed potent inhibition against beta-N-acetylglucosaminidases (GlcNAcases) of various organisms including insects, fungi, mammals, and a plant but no inhibition against beta-glucosidase of almond, alpha-glucosidase of yeast, or chitinase of Bacillus sp. The GlcNAcase inhibitory activity of pochonicine (1) was comparable to nagstatin, a potent GlcNAcase inhibitor of natural origin. 
11064202	20001107	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 	Cytochemical evaluation of localization and secretion of a heterologous enzyme displayed on yeast cell surface.	A starch-utilizing Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain was constructed by cell surface engineering. Distribution of the heterologous glucoamylase-alpha-agglutinin fusion protein on the yeast cell was analyzed by indirect fluorescence microscopy using an anti-glucoamylase antibody. Most of the intense fluorescence was first localized in the small bud, then observed on the entire cell wall of the daughter and mother cells. Fluorescence also accumulated at the neck region. These observations suggest that the display of the heterologous protein on the cell surface is carried with other cell wall components to the areas in which the cell wall is newly synthesized; the distribution is controlled by the cell cycle. Then, the heterologous protein-encoding gene was expressed in a sec1 mutant, in which secretory vesicles accumulate under restrictive temperature, and the produced protein was detected by immunoelectron microscopy. Most of the gold particles that reacted with the fusion protein were not localized in vesicles but in expanding endoplasmic reticulum. This phenomenon may be due to overproduction of the heterologous protein which was designed to be displayed on the cell wall. Artificial production of heterologous protein may have caused a relative shortage of glycosyl phosphatidylinositol anchors. 
3707549	19860215	Biochem._J.	D016428 	The cellulase of Penicillium pinophilum. Synergism between enzyme components in solubilizing cellulose with special reference to the involvement of two immunologically distinct cellobiohydrolases.	Two immunologically unrelated cellobiohydrolases (I and II), isolated from the extracellular cellulase system elaborated by the fungus Penicillum pinophilum, acted in synergism to solubilize the microcrystalline cellulose Avicel; the ratio of the two enzymes for maximum rate of attack was approx. 1:1. A hypothesis to explain the phenomenon of synergism between two endwise-acting cellobiohydrolases is presented. It is suggested that the cellobiohydrolases may be two stereospecific enzymes concerned with the hydrolysis of the two different configurations of non-reducing end groups that would exist in cellulose. Only one type of cellobiohydrolase has been isolated so far from the cellulases of the fungi Fusarium solani and Trichoderma koningii. Only cellobiohydrolase II of P. pinophilum acted synergistically with the cellobiohydrolase of the fungi T. koningii or F. solani to solubilize Avicel. Cellobiohydrolase II showed no capacity for co-operating with the endo-1,4-beta-glucanase of T. koningii or F. solani to solubilize crystalline cellulose, but cellobiohydrolase I did. These results are discussed in the context of the hypothesis presented. 
23201198	20121204	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Identification of the acid/base catalyst of a glycoside hydrolase family 3 (GH3) beta-glucosidase from Aspergillus niger ASKU28.	The commercially important glycoside hydrolase family 3 (GH3) beta-glucosidases from Aspergillus niger are anomeric-configuration-retaining enzymes that operate through the canonical double-displacement glycosidase mechanism. Whereas the catalytic nucleophile is readily identified across all GH3 members by sequence alignments, the acid/base catalyst in this family is phylogenetically variable and less readily divined. In this report, we employed three-dimensional structure homology modeling and detailed kinetic analysis of site-directed mutants to identify the catalytic acid/base of a GH3 beta-glucosidase from A. niger ASKU28. In comparison to the wild-type enzyme and other mutants, the E490A variant exhibited greatly reduced k(cat) and k(cat)/K(m) values toward the natural substrate cellobiose (67,000- and 61,000-fold, respectively). Correspondingly smaller kinetic effects were observed for artificial chromogenic substrates p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucoside and 2,4-dinitrophenyl beta-D-glucoside, the aglycone leaving groups of which are less dependent on acid catalysis, although changes in the rate-determining catalytic step were revealed for both. pH-rate profile analyses also implicated E490 as the general acid/base catalyst. Addition of azide as an exogenous nucleophile partially rescued the activity of the E490A variant with the aryl beta-glucosides and yielded beta-glucosyl azide as a product. These results strongly support the assignment of E490 as the acid/base catalyst in a beta-glucosidase from A. niger ASKU28, and provide crucial experimental support for the bioinformatic identification of the homologous residue in a range of related GH3 subfamily members. 
19090038	20081218	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Afcwh41 is required for cell wall synthesis, conidiation, and polarity in Aspergillus fumigatus.	alpha-Glucosidase I regulates trimming of the terminal alpha-1,2-glucose residue in the N-glycan-processing pathway, which plays an important role in the quality control system in mammalian cells. However, the consequence of glucose trimming of the N-glycan in filamentous fungi is unclear. We identified the gene encoding alpha-glucosidase I in the human opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus, namely Afcwh41. Deletion of the Afcwh41 gene resulted in a defective N-glycan processing of the proteins secreted by A. fumigatus. Although the Afcwh41 was not essential for hyphal growth and virulence, a severe reduction in conidia formation and a temperature-sensitive deficiency of cell wall integrity (CWI) were observed. Also, abnormalities of polar growth and septation were observed during conidial germination and hyphal elongation of the mutant. Our results suggest that Afcwh41 was involved in CWI, polarity, septation, and conidiation in A. fumigatus, probably by affecting the proper function of the proteins that are required for cell wall synthesis. 
20556375	20100618	Microb._Ecol.	D016428 D013486 	Ecoenzymatic stoichiometry in relation to productivity for freshwater biofilm and plankton communities.	The degradation of detrital organic matter and assimilation of carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) by heterotrophic microbial communities is mediated by enzymes released into the environment (ecoenzymes). For the attached microbial communities of soils and freshwater sediments, the activities of β-glucosidase, β-N-acetylglucosaminidase, leucine aminopeptidase, and phosphatase show consistent stoichiometric patterns. To determine whether similar constraints apply to planktonic communities, we assembled data from nine studies that include measurements of these enzyme activities along with microbial productivity. By normalizing enzyme activity to productivity, we directly compared the ecoenzymatic stoichiometry of aquatic biofilm and bacterioplankton communities. The relationships between β-glucosidase and α-glucosidase and β-glucosidase and β-N-acetylglucosaminidase were statistically indistinguishable for the two community types, while the relationships between β-glucosidase and phosphatase and β-glucosidase and leucine aminopeptidase significantly differed. For β-glucosidase vs. phosphatase, the differences in slope (biofilm 0.65, plankton 1.05) corresponded with differences in the mean elemental C:P ratio of microbial biomass (60 and 106, respectively). For β-glucosidase vs. leucine aminopeptidase, differences in slope (0.80 and 1.02) did not correspond to differences in the mean elemental C:N of biomass (8.6 and 6.6). β-N-Acetylglucosaminidase activity in biofilms was significantly greater than that of plankton, suggesting that aminosaccharides were a relatively more important N source for biofilms, perhaps because fungi are more abundant. The slopes of β-glucosidase vs. (β-N-acetylglucosaminidase + leucine aminopeptidase) regressions (biofilm 1.07, plankton 0.94) corresponded more closely to the estimated difference in mean biomass C:N. Despite major differences in physical structure and trophic organization, biofilm and plankton communities have similar ecoenzymatic stoichiometry in relation to productivity and biomass composition. These relationships can be integrated into the stoichiometric and metabolic theories of ecology and used to analyze community metabolism in relation to resource constraints. 
23057506	20121013	Drug_Dev_Ind_Pharm	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Enzymatic degradation of thiolated chitosan.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the biodegradability of thiolated chitosans in comparison to unmodified chitosan. Mediated by carbodiimide, thioglycolic acid (TGA) and mercaptonicotinic acid (MNA) were covalently attached to chitosan via formation an amide bond. Applying two different concentrations of carbodiimide 50 and 100 mM, two chitosan TGA conjugates (TGA A and TGA B) were obtained. According to chitosan solution (3% m/v) thiomer solutions were prepared and chitosanolytic enzyme solutions were added. Lysozyme, pectinase and cellulase were examined in chitosan degrading activity. The enzymatic degradability of these thiomers was investigated by viscosity measurements with a plate-plate viscometer. The obtained chitosan TGA conjugate A displayed 267.7 µmol and conjugate B displayed 116.3 µmol of immobilized thiol groups. With 325.4 µmol immobilized thiol groups, chitosan MNA conjugate displayed the most content of thiol groups. In rheological studies subsequently the modification proved that chitosan TGA conjugates with a higher coupling rate of thiol groups were not only degraded to a lesser extent by 20.9-26.4% but also more slowly. Chitosan mercaptonicotinic acid was degraded by 31.4-50.1% depending the investigated enzyme and even faster than unmodified chitosan. According to these results the biodegradability can be influenced by various modifications of the polymer which showed in particular that the rate of biodegradation is increased when MNA is the ligand, whereas the degradation is hampered when TGA is used as ligand for chitosan.  
16326755	20051206	Plant_Cell_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 	Colonization by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus versiforme induces a defense response against the root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita in the grapevine (Vitis amurensis Rupr.), which includes transcriptional activation of the class III chitinase gene VCH3.	Inoculation of the grapevine (Vitis amurensis Rupr.) with the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus Glomus versiforme significantly increased resistance against the root-knot nematode (RKN) Meloidogyne incognita. Studies using relative quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (RQRT-PCR) analysis of grapevine root inoculation with the AM fungus revealed an up-regulation of VCH3 transcripts. This increase was greater than that observed following infection with RKN. However, inoculation of the mycorrhizal grapevine roots with RKN was able to enhance VCH3 transcript expression further. Moreover, the increase in VCH3 transcripts appeared to result in a higher level of resistance against subsequent RKN infection. Constitutive expression of VCH3 cDNA in transgenic tobacco under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter also conferred resistance against RKN, but had no significant effect on the growth of the AM fungus. We analyzed beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity directed by a 1,216 bp VCH3 promoter in transgenic tobacco following inoculation with both the AM fungus and RKN. GUS activity was negligible in the root tissues before inoculation, and was more effectively induced after inoculation with the AM fungus than with RKN. Moreover, GUS staining in the mycorrhizal transgenic tobacco roots was enhanced by subsequent RKN infection, and was found ubiquitously throughout the whole root tissue. Together, these results suggest that AM fungus induced a defense response against RKN in the mycorrhizal grapevine roots, which appeared to involve transcriptional control of VCH3 expression throughout the whole root tissue. 
7764982	19940501	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Expression of the cellulase (FI-CMCase) gene of Aspergillus aculeatus in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	As a step to breed a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain able to produce ethanol directly from cellulose, we combined cDNA for Aspergillus aculeatus FI-CMCase (FI-carboxymethyl cellulase) with the GAP (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) promoter of S. cerevisiae and used the resultant plasmid, pYEC91, to transform S. cerevisiae. The transformed cells produced active FI-CMCase within the cytoplasm. Western-blot analysis following SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis demonstrated that the cells contained a peptide having the same molecular mass and immunological identity as A. aculeatus FI-CMCase. 
18565137	20080621	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 	Characterization of Sclerotinia and mycoparasite Coniothyrium minitans interaction by microscale co-culture.	To characterize the interaction of Sclerotinia sclerotiorum and S. minor with strains of the mycoparasite and commercial biocontrol agent Coniothyrium minitans using novel perfusion chamber gasket co-culture. Sclerotinia were cultured in perfusion chamber gaskets and then flooded with Coniothyrium conidia. After germination, Coniothyrium failed to show any form of directed growth, making contact with Sclerotinia hyphae in a random manner. In turn, some Coniothyrium hyphae coiled round Sclerotinia counterparts and although no intracellular growth was observed, Coniothyrium proliferated, while the hyphae of Sclerotinia became vacuolated and lost the cytoplasm. When co-cultures of Sclerotinia with Coniothyrium were flooded with FITC-lectins, small difference in fluorescence between the fungi was found with FITC-Con A suggesting that cell walls of both the species exposed mannose. In contrast, Coniothyrium fluoresced poorly in comparison with Sclerotinia when FITC-wheat germ agglutinin was used, indicating a marked paucity of N-acetylglucosamine exposure by cell walls of Coniothyrium, hence reduced exposure to chitinolytic enzyme action. The approach employed supported direct sequential microscopic observation of Coniothyrium and Sclerotinia as well as the utilization of representative fluorescent moieties to characterize relative carbohydrate cell wall exposure. 
15932978	20050604	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Characterization of a nucleus-encoded chitinase from the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis.	Endogenous proteins secreted from Kluyveromyces lactis were screened for their ability to bind to or to hydrolyze chitin. This analysis resulted in identification of a nucleus-encoded extracellular chitinase (KlCts1p) with a chitinolytic activity distinct from that of the plasmid-encoded killer toxin alpha-subunit. Sequence analysis of cloned KlCTS1 indicated that it encodes a 551-amino-acid chitinase having a secretion signal peptide, an amino-terminal family 18 chitinase catalytic domain, a serine-threonine-rich domain, and a carboxy-terminal type 2 chitin-binding domain. The association of purified KlCts1p with chitin is stable in the presence of high salt concentrations and pH 3 to 10 buffers; however, complete dissociation and release of fully active KlCts1p occur in 20 mM NaOH. Similarly, secreted human serum albumin harboring a carboxy-terminal fusion with the chitin-binding domain derived from KlCts1p also dissociates from chitin in 20 mM NaOH, demonstrating the domain's potential utility as an affinity tag for reversible chitin immobilization or purification of alkaliphilic or alkali-tolerant recombinant fusion proteins. Finally, haploid K. lactis cells harboring a cts1 null mutation are viable but exhibit a cell separation defect, suggesting that KlCts1p is required for normal cytokinesis, probably by facilitating the degradation of septum-localized chitin. 
10792550	20000503	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Effect of steroidal saponin from Yucca schidigera extract on ruminal microbes.	The effects of steroidal saponins (SAP) isolated from Yucca schidigera extract on ruminal bacteria and fungi were investigated in pure culture studies. Prevotella bryantii, Ruminobacter amylophilus, Selenomonas ruminantium and Streptococcus bovis were cultured through ten 24-h transfers in ruminal fluid medium containing 0 or 25 microg SAP ml-1 (measured as smilagenin equivalents). The four strains, each non-exposed or pre-exposed to SAP, were then inoculated into medium containing 0 or 250 microgram smilagenin equivalents ml-1 and 24-h growth curves were determined. The cellulolytic ruminal bacteria Ruminococcus flavefaciens, Fibrobacter succinogenes and Rc. albus were cultured for 72 h on Whatman no. 1 filter paper in medium containing 0, 9, 90 or 180 microgram SAP ml-1 for the determination of filter paper digestion and endoglucanase activity. The ruminal bacteria differed in their responses to SAP. Steroidal saponins in the medium reduced the growth of Strep. bovis (P < 0.01 at 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 h), P. bryantii (P < 0.05 at 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 24 h) and Rb. amylophilus (P < 0.05 at 14 and 24 h), but the growth of S. ruminantium was enhanced (P < 0.05) at 10, 14 and 24 h. The growth curves of all four non-cellulolytic species were similar (P > 0.05) between pre-exposed and non-exposed cultures and the concentrations of total SAP and soluble (deglycosylated) SAP in the liquid fraction were unchanged (P > 0.05) over time. Steroidal saponins inhibited the digestion of filter paper by all three cellulolytic bacteria, but F. succinogenes was less (P < 0.05) sensitive to SAP and more (P < 0. 05) effective at deglycosylating SAP than were Rc. flavefaciens or Rc. albus. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that SAP altered the cell walls of the SAP-inhibited non-cellulolytic bacteria. The ruminal fungi, Neocallimastix frontalis and Piromyces rhizinflata, were cultured on filter paper in medium containing 0, 0. 45, 2.25 or 4.5 microgram SAP ml-1. Filter paper digestion by both fungi was completely inhibited by 2.25 microgram SAP ml-1. Steroidal saponins from Y. schidigera inhibit cellulolytic ruminal bacteria and fungi, but their effects on amylolytic bacteria are species dependent and similar to the effects of ionophores. As such, SAP may be useful in nutritional applications targeting starch-digesting ruminal micro-organisms. 
22146477	20111208	J_Proteomics	D016428 D013485 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of lignocellulolytic enzymes by Phanerochaete chrysosporium on different lignocellulosic biomass.	Lignocellulosic biomass from agricultural crop residues and forest waste represents an abundant renewable resource for bioenergy and future biofuel. The current bottleneck of lignocellulosic biofuel production is the hydrolysis of biomass to sugar. To understand the enzymatic hydrolysis of complex biomasses, in this report, lignocellulolytic enzymes secretion by Phanerochaete chrysosporium cultivated in different natural lignocellulosic biomass such as corn stover, hay, sawdust, sugarcane baggase, wheat bran and wood chips were quantitatively analyzed with the iTRAQ technique using LC-MS/MS. A diverse groups of enzymes, including cellulases, glycoside hydrolases, hemicellulases, lignin degrading enzymes, peroxidases, esterases, lipases, chitinases, peptidases, protein translocating transporter and hypothetical proteins were quantified, of which several were novel lignocellulosic biomass hydrolyzing enzymes. The quantitative expression and regulation of lignocellulolytic enzymes by P. chrysosporium were dependent on the nature and complexity of lignocellulosic biomass as well as physical size of the biomass. The iTRAQ data revealed oxidative and hydrolytic lignin degrading mechanism of P. chrysosporium. Numerous proteins presumed to be involved in natural lignocellulosic biomass transformation and degradation were expressed and produced in variable quantities in response to different agricultural and forest wastes. 
8458831	19930401	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 D013485 	Physiological analysis of mutants indicates involvement of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae GPI-anchored protein gp115 in morphogenesis and cell separation.	This paper reports a phenotypic characterization of ggp1 mutants. The cloned GGP1 (GAS1) gene, which encodes a major GPI-anchored glycoprotein (gp115) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae of unknown function, was used to direct the inactivation of the chromosomal gene in haploid and diploid strains by gene replacement. The analysis of the null mutants reveals a reduction in the growth rate of 15 to 40%. Cells are round, with more than one bud, and extensively vacuolized. In the stationary phase, mutant cells are very large, arrest with a high percentage of budded cells (about 54 and 70% for haploid and diploid null mutants, respectively, in comparison with about 10 to 13% for control cells), and have reduced viability. The observed phenotype suggests defects in cell separation. Flow cytometric analysis of DNA reveals an increase in the fraction of cells in the G2+M+G1* compartment during exponential growth. Conjugation and sporulation are not affected. The exocellular location of gp115 led us to examine cell wall properties. Cell wall and septum ultrastructure of abnormally budded cells was analyzed by electron microscopy analysis, and no appreciable differences from wild-type cells were found. Microscopic analysis revealed an increase in chitin content and delocalization. In comparison with control cells, ggp1 null mutants are shown to be resistant to Zymolyase during the exponential growth phase. A fivefold overexpression of gp115 does not bring about any effects on cell growth parameters and cell wall properties. 
8616259	19960101	Plant_Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of two class II chitinase genes from peanut and expression studies in transgenic tobacco plants.	Two different genes encoding class II chitinases from peanut (Arachis hypogaea L. cv. NC4), A.h.Chi2;1 and A.h.Chi2;2, have been cloned. In peanut cell suspension cultures, mRNA levels of A.h.Chi2;2 increased after ethylene or salicylate treatment and in the presence of conidia from Botrytis cinerea. The second gene, A.h.Chi2;1, was only expressed after treatment with the fungal spores. Transgenic tobacco plants containing the complete peanut A.h.Chi2;1 gene exhibited essentially the same expression pattern in leaves as observed in peanut cell cultures. Expression characteristics of transgenic tobacco carrying a promoter-GUS fusion of A.h.Chi2;1 are described. 
1990267	19910201	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D016428 D013487 	The role of RAP1 in the regulation of the MAT alpha locus.	The RAP1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes an abundant DNA-binding protein, also known as GRF1, TBA, or TUF, that binds to many sites in the yeast genome in vitro. These sites define a consensus sequence, [sequence: see text], and deletion analyses of genes that contain this sequence have implicated the involvement of RAP1 in numerous cellular processes, including gene activation and repression. The MAT alpha locus, required for determination of the alpha cell type in yeast cells, contains a RAP1 binding site; this site coincides with the MAT alpha upstream activating sequence (UAS) and is necessary for expression of the two genes encoded by the MAT alpha locus, MAT alpha 1 and MAT alpha 2. We show that the MAT alpha UAS is sufficient to activate transcription from a promoterless gene fusion of the yeast CYC1 upstream region and the lacZ gene. Constructs containing only the MAT alpha UAS generated elevated levels of beta-galactosidase activity which were indistinguishable from those of constructs containing the entire MAT alpha intergenic region. Further, the MAT alpha UAS has an intrinsic polarity of transcriptional activation; transcription of CYC1-lacZ was six- to sevenfold higher when the UAS was oriented in the direction normally associated with MAT alpha 2 transcription. Point mutations in the MAT alpha UAS that reduce MAT alpha expression three- to fivefold resulted in a bi-mating phenotype, while a mutation that reduced MAT alpha expression still further resulted in an a-mating phenotype. We isolated plasmids from a high-copy-number yeast library that suppressed the bi-mating defect of point mutations in the MAT alpha UAS, and the most effective dosage suppressor contained the gene encoding RAP1. A temperature-sensitive rap1 mutant bi-mates at the semipermissive temperature. Double mutants at rap1 and mat alpha mate exclusively as a cells, at all temperatures, and do not express detectable levels of MAT alpha RNA. These data provide evidence that the RAP1 gene product functions at the MAT alpha UAS in vivo. 
8938376	19961031	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 	Calystegine B4, a novel trehalase inhibitor from Scopolia japonica.	GLC-MS analysis has been developed for screening plants of the family Solanaceae for new calystegines. GLC-MS analyses of the extract of Scopolia japonica showed the presence of a new tetrahydroxy-nor-tropane alkaloid in addition to the known calystegines A3, A5, B1, B2, B3, and C1. We gave this new alkaloid the trivial name calystegine B4. The structure of calystegine B4 was determined as 1 alpha, 2 beta, 3 alpha, 4 alpha-tetrahydroxy-nor-tropane from a variety of NMR spectral data. Calystegines B1, B2, and C1 are potent competitive inhibitors with Ki values ranging from 10(-6) to 10(-7) M for almond beta-glucosidase, while calystegine B4 inhibited this enzyme in a competitive manner, with a Ki value of 7.3 microM. Calystegine B2 is also a potent inhibitor of green coffee bean alpha-galactosidase, whereas calystegine B4 exhibited no significant activity for this enzyme. Among rat intestinal glycosidases, only trehalase was potently inhibited by calystegine B4, with an IC50 value of 9.8 microM. Furthermore, calystegine B4 potently inhibited pig kidney trehalase in a competitive manner, with a Ki value of 1.2 microM, but it was almost inactive against yeast and fungal trehalases. 
8987701	19961001	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Detection of maltose fermentation genes in the baking yeast strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The presence of any one of the five unlinked MAL loci (MAL1, MAL2, MAL3, MAL4 and MAL6) confers the ability to ferment maltose on the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Each locus is composed of three genes encoding maltose permease, alpha-glucosidase and MAL activator. Chromosomal DNA of seven representative baking strains has been separated by pulse-field gel electrophoresis and probed with three genes in MAL6 locus. The DNA bands to which all of the three MAL-derived probes simultaneously hybridized were chromosome VII carrying MAL1 in all of the strains tested, chromosome XI carrying MAL4 in six strains, chromosome III carrying MAL2 in three strains and chromosomes II and VIII carrying MAL3 and MAL6, respectively, in the one strain. The number of MAL loci in baking strains was comparable to those of brewing strains. 
22990239	20120920	EMBO_J.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Metazoan Hsp70 machines use Hsp110 to power protein disaggregation.	Accumulation of aggregation-prone misfolded proteins disrupts normal cellular function and promotes ageing and disease. Bacteria, fungi and plants counteract this by solubilizing and refolding aggregated proteins via a powerful cytosolic ATP-dependent bichaperone system, comprising the AAA+ disaggregase Hsp100 and the Hsp70-Hsp40 system. Metazoa, however, lack Hsp100 disaggregases. We show that instead the Hsp110 member of the Hsp70 superfamily remodels the human Hsp70-Hsp40 system to efficiently disaggregate and refold aggregates of heat and chemically denatured proteins in vitro and in cell extracts. This Hsp110 effect relies on nucleotide exchange, not on ATPase activity, implying ATP-driven chaperoning is not required. Knock-down of nematode Caenorhabditis elegans Hsp110, but not an unrelated nucleotide exchange factor, compromises dissolution of heat-induced protein aggregates and severely shortens lifespan after heat shock. We conclude that in metazoa, Hsp70-Hsp40 powered by Hsp110 nucleotide exchange represents the crucial disaggregation machinery that reestablishes protein homeostasis to counteract protein unfolding stress. 
15597736	20041216	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Apoplastic extracts from a transgenic wheat line exhibiting lesion-mimic phenotype have multiple pathogenesis-related proteins that are antifungal.	A transgenic wheat line constitutively expressing genes encoding a class IV acidic chitinase and an acidic beta-1,3-glucanase, showed significant delay in spread of Fusarium head blight (scab) disease under greenhouse conditions. In an earlier work, we observed a lesion-mimic phenotype in this transgenic line when homozygous for transgene loci. Apoplastic fluid (AF) extracted from the lesion-mimic plants had pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins belonging to families of beta-1,3-glucanases, chitinases, and thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs). AF had growth inhibitory activity against certain fungal pathogens, including Fusarium graminearum and Gaeumannomyces graminis var. tritici. Through a two-step ion-exchange chromatography protocol, we recovered many PR proteins and a few uncharacterized proteins. Three individual protein bands corresponding to a TLP (molecular mass, 16 kDa) and two beta-1,3-glucanases (molecular mass, 32 kDa each) were purified and identified by tandem mass spectrometry. We measured the in vitro antifungal activity of the three purified enzymes and a barley class II chitinase (purified earlier in our laboratory) in microtiter plate assays with macroconidia or conidiophores of F. graminearum and Pyrenophora tritici-repentis. Mixtures of proteins revealed synergistic or additive inhibitory activity against F. graminearum and P. tritici-repentis hyphae. The concentrations of PR proteins at which these effects were observed are likely to be those reached in AF of cells exhibiting a hypersensitive response. Our results suggest that apoplastic PR proteins are antifungal and their antimicrobial potency is dependent on concentrations and combinations that are effectively reached in plants following microbial attack. 
649570	19780401	J._Bacteriol.	D016428 	Spheroplast fusion and heterokaryon formation in Mucor racemosus.	Heterokaryons of Mucor racemosus were produced by fusion of spheroplasts from two auxotrophic strains of the fungus. Germinated sporangiospores were converted to spheroplasts by using commercial chitinase and Myxobacter AL-1 chitosanase. Spheroplasts from the auxotrophic strains were mixed in a buffered Ca(NO3)2 solution and fusion occurred. After cell wall regeneration, prototrophs were isolated. The frequency of heterokaryon formation was 1.45 X 10(-4). Prototrophic isolates segregated parental nuclei at a high frequency, indicating that heterokaryons had formed. 
15294847	20040806	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Direct production of ethanol from raw corn starch via fermentation by use of a novel surface-engineered yeast strain codisplaying glucoamylase and alpha-amylase.	Direct and efficient production of ethanol by fermentation from raw corn starch was achieved by using the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae codisplaying Rhizopus oryzae glucoamylase and Streptococcus bovis alpha-amylase by using the C-terminal-half region of alpha-agglutinin and the flocculation functional domain of Flo1p as the respective anchor proteins. In 72-h fermentation, this strain produced 61.8 g of ethanol/liter, with 86.5% of theoretical yield from raw corn starch. 
17351079	20070314	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Candida albicans Rho-type GTPase-encoding genes required for polarized cell growth and cell separation.	Rho proteins are essential regulators of morphogenesis in eukaryotic cells. In this report, we investigate the role of two previously uncharacterized Rho proteins, encoded by the Candida albicans RHO3 (CaRHO3) and CaCRL1/CaRHO4 genes. The CaRHO3 gene was found to contain one intron. Promoter shutdown experiments using a MET3 promoter-controlled RHO3 revealed a strong cell polarity defect and a partially depolarized actin cytoskeleton. Hyphal growth after promoter shutdown was abolished in rho3 mutants even in the presence of a constitutively active ras1(G13V) allele, and existing germ tubes became swollen. Deletion of C. albicans RHO4 indicated that it is a nonessential gene and that rho4 mutants were phenotypically different from rho3. Two distinct phenotypes of rho4 cells were elongated cell morphology and an unexpected cell separation defect generating chains of cells. Colony morphology of crl1/rho4 resulted in a growth-dependent smooth (long cell cycle length) or wrinkled (short cell cycle length) phenotype. This phenotype was additionally dependent on the rho4 cell separation defect and was also found in a Cacht3 chitinase mutant that shows a strong cytokinesis defect. The overexpression of the endoglucanase encoding the ENG1 gene, but not CHT3, suppressed the cell separation defect of crl1/rho4 but could not suppress the cell elongation phenotype. C. albicans Crl1/Rho4 and Bnr1 both localize to septal sites in yeast and hyphal cells but not to the hyphal tip. Deletion of RHO4 and BNR1 produced similar morphological phenotypes. Based on the localization of Rho4 and on the rho4 mutant phenotype, we propose a model in which Rho4p may function as a regulator of cell polarity, breaking the initial axis of polarity found during early bud growth to promote the construction of a septum. 
4074744	19851218	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	Molecular expression of xylanase gene in Cryptococcus albidus.	In the yeast Cryptococcus albidus, the utilization of xylan as compared to xylose requires at least an inducible endoxylanase enzyme, secreted in the culture medium. The endoxylanase induction was monitored by immunoprecipitation of in vivo and in vitro synthesized products. The mature endoxylanase is a highly glycosylated enzyme with an apparent molecular weight of 48 000. Upon chemical deglycosylation with trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, the molecular weight was reduced to 40 000. Addition of tunicamycin to the culture medium resulted in the synthesis of a modified polypeptide having a molecular weight of 40 000. Poly(A)-containing RNA isolated from the yeast was translated in the rabbit reticulocyte protein-synthesizing system. The appearance of a translatable xylanase mRNA was observed in xylan-grown cells but not in xylose-grown cells. The polypeptide identified as xylanase had a molecular weight of 44 000. This suggests that the xylanase is synthesized as a precursor, containing a peptide signal sequence of 35 residues. 
20096556	20100126	Waste_Manag	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Microbial population dynamics and enzyme activities in composting processes with different starting materials.	A biological comparison based on differences in the starting material for composting processes was made. Mesophilic aerobic microbiota, fungi, actinomycetes and hemicellulolytic microorganisms reached significantly higher levels in the MSW final product. The population of cellulolytic microorganisms did not show a clear trend, although it was more numerous in the HW piles. Counts for N(2)-fixing and ammonifying bacteria were significantly higher in the SS pile at the early stages of the process, while populations tended to become equal as time progressed. The lowest populations were detected for nitrifying bacteria, with higher but not always significant levels for the SS pile. beta-Glucosidase and phosphatase activities were higher in the SS pile at the early stages. Protease reached its maximum activity during the bio-oxidative phase and final stages in the HW and MSW piles, respectively. Dehydrogenase activity, with an occasional high level for the MSW at the beginning of the process, was almost inexistent since the end of the bio-oxidative phase. On the contrary, urease showed higher levels at the final stage of the process, with the MSW pile showing the greatest levels most of the time. According to these results, the nature of the starting material causes differences in biological parameters. 
17168300	20061216	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Hydrolysis of wheat flour with amylase preparations and individual enzymes].	Rheological properties of wheat flour were studied in the course of its processing (cooking and saccharification). The effects of commercial alpha-amylase preparations were compared during flour preparation. Test preparations were equally potent in decreasing the viscosity of an all-grain batch. Homogenous glucoamylases isolated from Aspergillus differed in the presence or absence of the starch-binding domain. The starch-binding domain provided for the high activity of glucoamylase on insoluble starch, but gave no advantages in saccharification of pretreated wheat flour. 
8724139	19960401	Glycobiology	D016428 D013485 	Defective threonine-linked glycosylation of human insulin-like growth factor in mutants of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Mutants of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were identified, in which O-glycosylation at threonine 29 of a heterologous protein, human insulin-like growth factor (hIGF-1), is defective. In mutant M195, O-glycosylation of hIGF-1, but not of yeast proteins chitinase and a-agglutinin, was reduced; in mutant M577 yeast proteins were affected besides hIGF-1. The mutations of M195 and M577 did not affect viability and could not be complemented by the PMT1 or PMT2 genes. The mutant phenotype of strain M195 was reconstituted in an in vitro system, in which a hIGF-1-derived peptide encompassing residues 24-34 was not used as acceptor for mannosylation, while unrelated peptides were glycosylated at wild-type levels. hIGF-1 glycosylation was drastically reduced in pmt1 disruptants and to a lesser extent in pmt2 disruptants, suggesting interaction between the PMT gene products and components mutated in M195 and M577 cells. The results suggest that mutations may only affect O-glycosylation of a specific subset of secreted proteins in yeast. 
23224497	20121211	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Affinity purification and characterization of a biodegradable plastic-degrading enzyme from a yeast isolated from the larval midgut of a stag beetle, Aegus laevicollis.	Two yeast strains, which have the ability to degrade biodegradable plastic films, were isolated from the larval midgut of a stag beetle, Aegus laevicollis. Both of them are most closely related to Cryptococcus magnus and could degrade biodegradable plastic (BP) films made of poly(butylene succinate) (PBS) and poly(butylene succinate-co-adipate) (PBSA) effectively. A BP-degrading enzyme was purified from the culture broth of one of the isolated strains employing a newly developed affinity purification method based on the binding action of the enzyme to the substrate (emulsified PBSA) and its subsequent degradative action toward the substrate. Partial amino acid sequences of this enzyme suggested that it belongs to the cutinase family, and thus, the enzyme was named CmCut1. It has a molecular mass of 21 kDa and a degradative activity for emulsified PBSA which was significantly enhanced by the simultaneous presence of Ca(2+) or Mg(2+) at a concentration of about 2.5 mM. Its optimal pH was 7.5, and the optimal temperature was 40 °C. It showed a broad substrate specificity for p-nitrophenyl (pNP)-fatty acid esters ranging from pNP-acetate (C2) to pNP-stearate (C18) and films of PBSA, PBS, poly(ε-caprolactone), and poly(lactic acid).  
22690956	20120614	Chem_Biol_Drug_Des	D016428 D013485 	An isoquinoline alkaloid, berberine, can inhibit fungal alpha amylase: enzyme kinetic and molecular modeling studies.	Aspergillus flavus is a commonly found fungal pathogen, which produces aflatoxins, highly toxic and hepatocarcinogenic natural compounds. Inhibition of fungal alpha amylase activity has been found to limit the ability of the fungus to produce aflatoxins. Berberine, an isoquinoline alkaloid commonly found in many medicinal plants, was identified to inhibit the growth of A. flavus. The amount of berberine required to inhibit the fungal mycelial growth was determined. The compound was also found to inhibit the alpha amylase from the A. flavus. The binding affinity of the compound toward alpha amylase and the enzyme inhibitory activity have been determined by enzyme kinetic studies and Isothermal Titration Calorimetric analysis. Molecular modeling and docking studies were carried out to understand the enzyme-ligand interactions. 
22367528	20120228	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D016428 D013485 	Production of xylanase and β-xylosidase from autohydrolysis liquor of corncob using two fungal strains.	Agroindustrial residues are materials often rich in cellulose and hemicellulose. The use of these substrates for the microbial production of enzymes of industrial interest is mainly due to their high availability associated with their low cost. In this work, corncob (CCs) particles decomposed to soluble compounds (liquor) were incorporated in the microbial growth medium through autohydrolysis, as a strategy to increase and undervalue xylanase and β-xylosidase production by Aspergillus terricola and Aspergillus ochraceus. The CCs autohydrolysis liquor produced at 200 °C for 5, 15, 30 or 50 min was used as the sole carbon source or associated with untreated CC. The best condition for enzyme synthesis was observed with CCs submitted to 30 min of autohydrolysis. The enzymatic production with untreated CCs plus CC liquor was higher than with birchwood xylan for both microorganisms. A. terricola produced 750 total U of xylanase (144 h cultivation) and 30 total U of β-xylosidase (96-168 h) with 0.75% untreated CCs and 6% CCs liquor, against 650 total U of xylanase and 2 total U of β-xylosidase in xylan; A. ochraceus produced 605 total U of xylanase and 56 total U of β-xylosidase (168 h cultivation) with 1% untreated CCs and 10% CCs liquor against 400 total U of xylanase and 38 total U of β-xylosidase in xylan. These results indicate that the treatment of agroindustrial wastes through autohydrolysis can be a viable strategy in the production of high levels of xylanolytic enzymes. 
15917603	20050527	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D003160 D023362 D016428 D013485 	beta-Glucosidase production by Trichoderma reesei.	The hydrolysis of cellulose to the water-soluble products cellobiose and glucose is achieved via synergistic action of cellulolytic proteins. The three types of enzymes involved in this process are endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and beta-glucosidases. One of the best fungal cellulase producers is Trichoderma reesei RUT C30. However, the amount of beta-glucosidases secreted by this fungus is insufficient for effective cellulose conversion. We investigated the production of cellulases and beta-glucosidases in shake-flask cultures by applying three pH-controlling strategies: the pH of the production medium was adjusted to 5.8 after the addition of seed culture with no additional pH adjustment performed, the pH was adjusted to 6.0 daily, and the pH was maintained at 6.0 by the addition of Tris-maleate buffer to the growth medium. Different carbon sources Solka Floc 200, glucose, lactose, and sorbitol were added to standard Mandels nutrients. The lowest beta-glucosidase activities were obtained when no pH adjustment was done regardless of the carbon source employed. Somewhat higher levels of beta- glucosidase were measured in the culture filtrates when daily pH adjustment was carried out. The effect of buffering the culture medium on beta-glucosidase liberation was most prominent when a carbon source inducing the production of other cellulases was applied. 
2269871	19901001	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Purification and properties of an extracellular endoglucanase from Myceliophthora thermophila D-14 (ATCC 48104).	An extracellular endoglucanase (1,4-beta-glucanohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.4) produced by Myceliophthora thermophila D-14 (ATCC 48104) has been purified to homogeneity by ammonium sulphate precipitation and two consecutive ion-exchange chromatographic steps on DEAE-Sephadex A-50 columns. The enzyme was purified 13.8-fold and was homogeneous by analytical PAGE and SDS-PAGE. It has a high apparent Mr, of about 100,000. The pH and temperature optima for its activity were 4.8 and 65 degrees C respectively. The Km of the purified enzyme for CMC (sodium salt) was 3 mg ml-1. The enzyme displayed low activity toward salicin and p-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucoside. The activity was enhanced in the presence of Na+, K+ and Ca2+ but effectively inhibited by Hg2+, Fe2+, Mg2+, Cu2+ and NH4+. Inhibition studies indicated that the enzyme may be a metalloprotein and/or that it requires metal ions for its optimum activity. 
23306886	20130112	Appl._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Enhanced saccharification of biologically pretreated wheat straw for ethanol production.	The biological pretreatment of lignocellulosic biomass with white-rot fungi for the production of bioethanol is an alternative to the most used physico-chemical processes. After biological treatment, a solid composed of cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin-this latter is with a composition lower than that found in the initial substrate-is obtained. On the contrary, after applying physico-chemical methods, most of the hemicellulose fraction is solubilized, while cellulose and lignin fractions remain in the solid. The optimization of the combination of cellulases and hemicellulases required to saccharify wheat straw pretreated with the white-rot fungus Irpex lacteus was carried out in this work. The application of the optimal dosage made possible the increase of the sugar yield from 33 to 54 %, and at the same time the reduction of the quantity of enzymatic mixture in 40 %, with respect to the initial dosage. The application of a pre-hydrolysis step with xylanases was also studied. 
6970066	19800901	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Lytic enzymes in the autolysis of Schizophyllum commune with special reference to 1,3-alpha-glucanase.	In the autolytic phase of growth Schizophyllum commune lost 62% of its dry weight in 70 days of incubation. The variations in the activity of some lytic enzymes were studied in the culture fluid and mycelial extracts during growth and autolysis of this fungus. The enzymes 1,3-beta-glucanase (exoglucanase), 1,3(4)-beta-glucanase (endoglucanase), alpha-amylase, and invertase behaved in the same way in culture fluid and mycelial extract, but their activities were much higher in the culture fluid. The enzyme activities increased during autolysis, but then decreased at the end of this period except in the case of alpha-amylase which remained high. It was only possible to detect 1,6-beta-glucanase, cellulase, and polygalacturonase activities at certain times during the autolytic phase of growth. The enzyme chitinase was not detected and 1,3-alpha-glucanase (S-glucanase) occurred in the mycelial extract at a higher concentration than in the culture fluid. A decrease in the activity of this enzyme in the mycelial extract and an increase in the culture fluid occurred during autolysis. The enzyme 1,3-alpha-glucanase exhibited two optima pH, one at 6.0 and the other at 8.0. The Km value for the latter was 0.02 M at pH 5.5 in borate-citrate-phosphate buffer. 
10564003	19991124	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 	Production of substrate for galactose oxidase by depolymerization of an arabinogalactan-peptide from wheat flour.	Water extractable arabinogalactan-peptide (WE-AGP) isolated from white wheat flour was depolymerized enzymatically to liberate substrate for a galactose oxidase from Dactylium dendroides. A crude liquid pectolytic preparation from Aspergillus niger (p70) displayed activities capable of converting WE-AGP into a substrate for galactose oxidase. The most favorable substrate was observed when WE-AGP was not fully depolymerized into galactose and arabinose. alpha-L-Arabinofuranosidase B from A. niger was also able to produce substrate from WE-AGP; arabinofuranosidase-treated WE-AGP was a better substrate for galactose oxidase than galactose. Treatment by the crude p70 and purified enzymes showed that alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase was partly responsible for the production of substrate, whereas beta-galactosidase did not result in any substrate production or improve the effect of alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase. However, the positive effect of alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase was increased when p70 was added at the same level of arabinofuranosidase activity, suggesting that additional enzyme activities present in p70 were responsible for production of substrate for galactose oxidase. 
23824666	20130705	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Potentiation of the synergistic activities of chitinases ChiA, ChiB and ChiC from Serratia marcescens CFFSUR-B2 by chitobiase (Chb) and chitin binding protein (CBP).	With the goal of understanding the chitinolytic mechanism of the potential biological control strain Serratia marcescens CFFSUR-B2, genes encoding chitinases ChiA, ChiB and ChiC, chitobiase (Chb) and chitin binding protein (CBP) were cloned, the protein products overexpressed in Escherichia coli as 6His-Sumo fusion proteins and purified by affinity chromatography. Following affinity tag removal, the chitinolytic activity of the recombinant proteins was evaluated individually and in combination using colloidal chitin as substrate. ChiB and ChiC were highly active while ChiA was inactive. Reactions containing both ChiB and ChiC showed significantly increased N-acetylglucosamine trimer and dimer formation, but decreased monomer formation, compared to reactions with either enzyme alone. This suggests that while both ChiB and ChiC have a general affinity for the same substrate, they attack different sites and together degrade chitin more efficiently than either enzyme separately. Chb and CBP in combination with ChiB and ChiC (individually or together) increased their chitinase activity. We report for the first time the potentiating effect of Chb on the activity of the chitinases and the synergistic activity of a mixture of all five proteins (the three chitinases, Chb and CBP). These results contribute to our understanding of the mechanism of action of the chitinases produced by strain CFFSUR-B2 and provide a molecular basis for its high potential as a biocontrol agent against fungal pathogens.  
21822643	20110809	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	A carrier fusion significantly induces unfolded protein response in heterologous protein production by Aspergillus oryzae.	In heterologous protein production by filamentous fungi, target proteins are expressed as fusions with homologous secretory proteins, called carriers, for higher production yields. Although carrier fusion is thought to overcome the bottleneck in transcriptional and (post)translational processes during heterologous protein production, there is limited knowledge of its physiological effects on the host strain. In this study, we performed DNA microarray analysis by comparing gene expression patterns of two Aspergillus oryzae strains expressing either carrier- or non-carrier-fused bovine chymosin (CHY). When CHY was expressed as a fusion with α-amylase (AmyB), the production level increased by approximately 2-fold as compared with the non-carrier-fused CHY. DNA microarray analysis revealed that the carrier fusion significantly up-regulated many genes involved in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein-folding and secretion. Consistently, hacA transcripts were efficiently spliced in the strain expressing the carrier-fused CHY, indicating an unfolded protein response (UPR). The carrier-fused CHY was detected intracellularly without processing at the Kex2 cleavage site, which is likely recognized in the Golgi, and the carrier fusion delayed extracellular CHY production in the early growth phase as compared with the non-carrier-fused expression. Taken together, our data suggest a proposal that the carrier fusion temporarily accumulates the carrier-fused CHY in the ER and significantly induces UPR. 
21596546	20110521	Phytomedicine	D016428 	Ganoderol B: a potent α-glucosidase inhibitor isolated from the fruiting body of Ganoderma lucidum.	α-Glucosidase inhibitor has considerable potential as a diabetes mellitus type 2 drug because it prevents the digestion of carbohydrates. The search for the constituents reducing α-glucosidase activity led to the finding of active compounds in the fruiting body of Ganoderma lucidum. The CHCl(3) extract of the fruiting body of G. lucidum was found to show inhibitory activity on α-glucosidase in vitro. The neutral fraction, with an IC(50) of 88.7 μg/ml, had stronger inhibition than a positive control, acarbose, with an IC(50) of 336.7 μg/ml (521.5 μM). The neutral fraction was subjected to silica gel column chromatography and repeated p-HPLC to provide an active compound, (3β,24E)-lanosta-7,9(11),24-trien-3,26-diol (ganoderol B). It was found to have high α-glucosidase inhibition, with an IC(50) of 48.5 μg/ml (119.8 μM). 
19936091	20091126	Gene_Regul_Syst_Bio	D016428 	Trichoderma biocontrol: signal transduction pathways involved in host sensing and mycoparasitism.	Fungi of the genus Trichoderma are used as biocontrol agents against several plant pathogenic fungi like Rhizoctonia spp., Pythium spp., Botrytis cinerea and Fusarium spp. which cause both soil-borne and leaf- or flower-borne diseases of agricultural plants. Plant disease control by Trichoderma is based on complex interactions between Trichoderma, the plant pathogen and the plant. Until now, two main components of biocontrol have been identified: direct activity of Trichoderma against the plant pathogen by mycoparasitism and induced systemic resistance in plants. As the mycoparasitic interaction is host-specific and not merely a contact response, it is likely that signals from the host fungus are recognised by Trichoderma and provoke transcription of mycoparasitism-related genes. In the last few years examination of signalling pathways underlying Trichoderma biocontrol started and it was shown that heterotrimeric G-proteins and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases affected biocontrol-relevant processes such as the production of hydrolytic enzymes and antifungal metabolites and the formation of infection structures. MAPK signalling was also found to be involved in induction of plant systemic resistance in Trichoderma virens and in the hyperosmotic stress response in Trichoderma harzianum. Analyses of the function of components of the cAMP pathway during Trichoderma biocontrol revealed that mycoparasitism-associated coiling and chitinase production as well as secondary metabolism are affected by the internal cAMP level; in addition, a cross talk between regulation of light responses and the cAMP signalling pathway was found in Trichoderma atroviride. 
16535057	19950601	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Purification and Characterization of a Glucoamylase from Humicola grisea.	A thermostable extracellular glucoamylase from the thermophilic fungus Humicola grisea was purified to homogeneity. Its molecular mass and isoelectric point were 74 kDa and 8.4, respectively. The enzyme contained 5% carbohydrate, showed maximal activities at pH 6.0 and 60(deg)C, and was stable at 55(deg)C and pH 6.0 for 2 h. The K(infm) of soluble starch hydrolysis at 50(deg)C and pH 6.0 was 0.14 mg/ml. The purified enzyme was remarkably insensitive to glucose. 
24415099	20140114	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Short communication: Protoplast formation from the thermophilic fungus Malbranchea sulfurea, using the thermostable chitinase and laminarinase of Paecilomyces varioti.	Two thermostable enzymes produced by the thermophilic fungus Paecilomyces varioti, a chitinase and laminarinase, were used to isolate protoplasts of a thermophilic fungus, Malbranchea sulfurea. The frequency of protoplast regeneration observed (35%) was considerably higher than that obtained using commercial lytic enzymes.  
2993804	19850101	Mol._Gen._Genet.	D016428 D013486 D013487 	Organization of the MAL loci of Saccharomyces. Physical identification and functional characterization of three genes at the MAL6 locus.	We have physically and functionally identified three genes at the MAL6 locus of Saccharomyces carlsbergensis. Using multicopy yeast plasmid vectors, we have subcloned various segments of the entire MAL6 locus. The functional characterization of the MAL6 subcloned regions was determined by (1) analyzing biochemically the levels of MAL-encoded proteins (maltase [alpha-D-glucosidase, E.C. 3.2.1.20] and maltose transport protein) in cells transformed with various MAL6 subclones, and (2) testing the ability of the subclones to complement the maltose fermentation defects of well characterized Mal- mutants in the highly homologous MAL1 locus. The physical homology between MAL6 and MAL1 is in part demonstrated by the gene disruption of MAL1 using subcloned MAL6 DNA sequences. The results demonstrate that the MAL6 locus is a complex of at least three genes: MAL6R, MAL6T and MAL6S. These genes specify, respectively, a regulatory function, a maltose transport activity (presumably the maltose permease) and the structural gene for maltase. The functional organization of the MAL6 locus is thus identical to that which we had previously determined by mutational analysis for the MAL1 locus. 
22828792	20120726	World_J._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	A novel xylan degrading β-D-xylosidase: purification and biochemical characterization.	Aspergillus ochraceus, a thermotolerant fungus isolated in Brazil from decomposing materials, produced an extracellular β-xylosidase that was purified using DEAE-cellulose ion exchange chromatography, Sephadex G-100 and Biogel P-60 gel filtration. β-xylosidase is a glycoprotein (39 % carbohydrate content) and has a molecular mass of 137 kDa by SDS-PAGE, with optimal temperature and pH at 70 °C and 3.0-5.5, respectively. β-xylosidase was stable in acidic pH (3.0-6.0) and 70 °C for 1 h. The enzyme was activated by 5 mM MnCl₂ (28 %) and MgCl₂ (20 %) salts. The β-xylosidase produced by A. ochraceus preferentially hydrolyzed p-nitrophenyl-β-D-xylopyranoside, exhibiting apparent K(m) and V(max) values of 0.66 mM and 39 U (mg protein)⁻¹ respectively, and to a lesser extent p-nitrophenyl-β-D-glucopyranoside. The enzyme was able to hydrolyze xylan from different sources, suggesting a novel β-D-xylosidase that degrades xylan. HPLC analysis revealed xylans of different compositions which allowed explaining the differences in specificity observed by β-xylosidase. TLC confirmed the capacity of the enzyme in hydrolyzing xylan and larger xylo-oligosaccharides, as xylopentaose. 
18938241	20081022	Curr._Opin._Immunol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Chitin regulation of immune responses: an old molecule with new roles.	Chitin, the second most abundant polysaccharide in nature, is commonly found in lower organisms such as fungi, crustaceans, and insects, but not in mammals. Although the non-specific anti-viral and anti-tumor activities of chitin/chitin derivatives were described two decades ago, the immunological effects of chitin have been only recently been addressed. Recent studies demonstrated that chitin has complex and size-dependent effects on innate and adaptive immune responses including the ability to recruit and activate innate immune cells and induce cytokine and chemokine production via a variety of cell surface receptors including macrophage mannose receptor, toll-like receptor 2 (TLR-2), and Dectin-1. They also demonstrated adjuvant effects of chitin in allergen-induced type 1 or type 2 inflammation and provided insights into the important roles of chitinases and chitinase-like proteins (C/CLP) in pulmonary inflammation. The status of the field and areas of controversy are highlighted. 
21340036	20110223	PLoS_ONE	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Application of GFAT as a novel selection marker to mediate gene expression.	The enzyme glutamine: fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase (GFAT), also known as glucosamine synthase (GlmS), catalyzes the formation of glucosamine-6-phosphate from fructose-6-phosphate and is the first and rate-limiting enzyme of the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway. For the first time, the GFAT gene was proven to possess a function as an effective selection marker for genetically modified (GM) microorganisms. This was shown by construction and analysis of two GFAT deficient strains, E. coli ΔglmS and S. pombe Δgfa1, and the ability of the GFAT encoding gene to mediate plasmid selection. The gfa1 gene of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe was deleted by KanMX6-mediated gene disruption and the Cre-loxP marker removal system, and the glmS gene of Escherichia coli was deleted by using λ-Red mediated recombinase system. Both E. coli ΔglmS and S. pombe Δgfa1 could not grow normally in the media without addition of glucosamine. However, the deficiency was complemented by transforming the plasmids that expressed GFAT genes. The xylanase encoding gene, xynA2 from Thermomyces lanuginosus was successfully expressed and secreted by using GFAT as selection marker in S. pombe. Optimal glucosamine concentration for E. coli ΔglmS and S. pombe Δgfa1 growth was determined respectively. These findings provide an effective technique for the construction of GM bacteria without an antibiotic resistant marker, and the construction of GM yeasts to be applied to complex media. 
17110971	20061118	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Biocontrol of wood-rotting fungi with Streptomyces violaceusniger XL-2.	During the previous decade, chitinases have received increased attention because of their wide range of applications. Chito-oligomers produced by enzymatic hydrolysis of chitin have been of interest in recent years because of their broad applications in medical, agricultural, and industrial applications, such as antibacterial, antifungal, hypo cholesterolemic, and antihypertensive activity, and as food quality enhancer. Fungal cell walls being rich in chitin also enable the use of chitinases in biocontrol of fungal pathogens, as bio-fungicides. An actinomycete was isolated from the bark of trees of Dehradun in India and was later identified as Streptomyces violaceusniger. This strain exhibits strong antagonism towards various wood-rotting fungi, such as Phanerochaete chrysosporium, Postia placenta, Coriolus versicolor, and Gloeophyllum trabeum. Further, studies showed an extracellular bioactive compound was responsible for the antagonism. The conditions for the production of this biocontrol agent were optimized, and the effects of various stress factors (like nitrogen-deficient media, carbon-deficient media, etc.) were studied. The presence of chitin in the growth media was found to be an essential factor for the active production of the biocontrol agent. The pH and temperature optima for the biocontrol agent were determined. Purification and characterization of this specific biocontrol agent was performed through anion exchange chromatography using a DEAE-cellulose column, and a single protein band was obtained on a 10% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel. The protein was later identified as a 28 kDa endo chitinase by MALDI-TOF (matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight) and by a chitobiose activity assay. 
15090228	20040420	Assay_Drug_Dev_Technol	D003160 D016428 	Homogeneous assays for cellular protein degradation using beta-galactosidase complementation: NF-kappaB/IkappaB pathway signaling.	Activation of cells by the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) cytokines results in activation of the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) via proteasomal degradation of an associated IkappaB molecule. To monitor cellular IkappaB, the protein was recombinantly expressed as a fusion protein with a novel enzymatic tag, ProLabel (PL). ProLabel is a small 5.5-kDa sequence from the amino-terminal amino acids of beta-galactosidase, possesses a simple ribbon structure, and can be fused to many proteins via the amino or carboxyl terminus. Expression of this construct allows quantitative detection of the recombinant protein in crude lysates by using a method based on beta-galactosidase enzyme fragment complementation (EFC). Transient transfection of IkappaB-PL in HeLa cells generated an EFC signal that was highly correlated with a western analysis of the protein construct. ProLabel expressed alone in the cells did not show any EFC activity, due to rapid proteolytic degradation, indicating a very low background signal from the protein tag. TNF-alpha and IL-1 treatment induced a concentration-dependent degradation of IkappaB-PL, with potency values similar to those reported using other methods. IkappaBM-PL (mutant of IkappaB-PL), in contrast, did not undergo degradation for concentrations up to and including 10 ng/ml TNF-alpha or IL-1, demonstrating that degradation of IkappaB-PL was specific to the NF-kappaB pathway activation. TNF-alpha and IL-1 induced maximal IkappaB-PL degradation within 30 min of induction. This was reversed by several agents that ablate this pathway, including anti-TNF-alpha antibodies and the proteasome inhibitor, MG-132. The assay was amenable to HTS systems, with good precision and reproducibility. Z' values and coefficients of variance for IkappaB-PL degradation were 0.6 and <9%, respectively. 
22363647	20120225	PLoS_ONE	D016428 D013485 	Verticillium longisporum infection affects the leaf apoplastic proteome, metabolome, and cell wall properties in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Verticillium longisporum (VL) is one of the most devastating diseases in important oil crops from the family of Brassicaceae. The fungus resides for much time of its life cycle in the extracellular fluid of the vascular system, where it cannot be controlled by conventional fungicides. To obtain insights into the biology of VL-plant interaction in the apoplast, the secretome consisting of the extracellular proteome and metabolome as well as cell wall properties were studied in the model Brassicaceae, Arabidopsis thaliana. VL infection resulted in increased production of cell wall material with an altered composition of carbohydrate polymers and increased lignification. The abundance of several hundred soluble metabolites changed in the apoplast of VL-infected plants including signalling and defence compounds such as glycosides of salicylic acid, lignans and dihydroxybenzoic acid as well as oxylipins. The extracellular proteome of healthy leaves was enriched in antifungal proteins. VL caused specific increases in six apoplast proteins (three peroxidases PRX52, PRX34, P37, serine carboxypeptidase SCPL20, α-galactosidase AGAL2 and a germin-like protein GLP3), which have functions in defence and cell wall modification. The abundance of a lectin-like, chitin-inducible protein (CILLP) was reduced. Since the transcript levels of most of the induced proteins were not elevated until late infection time points (>20 dpi), whereas those of CILLP and GLP3 were reduced at earlier time points, our results may suggest that VL enhances its virulence by rapid down-regulation and delay of induction of plant defence genes. 
16831478	20060713	J._Microbiol._Methods	D016428 D013485 	A novel system of genetic transformation allows multiple integrations of a desired gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosomes.	Increasing industrial competitiveness and productivity demand that recombinant yeast strains, used in many different processes, be constantly adapted and/or genetically improved to suit changing requirements. Among yeasts, Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the best-studied organism, and the most frequently employed yeast in industrial processes. In the present study, laboratory strains and industrial S. cerevisiae strains were stably transformed with a novel vector containing the glucoamylase cDNA of Aspergillus awamori flanked by delta-sequences (deltaGlucodelta), and lacking a positive selection marker. Co-transformation with known plasmids allowed selection by auxotrophic complementation of the leu2 mutation and/or geneticin resistance (G418). In all cases, several copies of the deltaGlucodelta vector were inserted into the genome of the yeast cell without selective pressure, showing 100% stability after 80 generations. Transformation frequency of the new vector was similar for S. cerevisiae laboratory strains and industrial wild-type S. cerevisiae strains. This novel genetic transformation system is versatile and suitable to introduce several stable copies of a desired expression cassette into the genome of different S. cerevisiae yeast strains. 
23333949	20130122	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	A straightforward access to TMG-chitooligomycins and their evaluation as β-N-acetylhexosaminidase inhibitors.	A chemo-biotechnological approach is reported for the synthesis of TMG-chitooligomycins, CO-n (NMe(3)). Their abilities to inhibit β-N-acetylhexosaminidases (HexNAcases), from Aspergillus oryzae (AoHex, fungi), Canavalia ensiformis (CeHex, plant) HexNAcases and a chitobiase from Serratia marcescens (SmCHB, bacteria) were studied and compared with their precursors CO-n (N). CO-n (NMe(3)) were revealed as potent inhibitors for AoHex and SmCHB with a proved chain length effect while CO-n (N) was a highly selective inhibitor of SmCHB. This route can be considered as the privileged way to produce easily and in large scale a wide range of size-defined chitooligosaccharide-based inhibitors to fine-tune the structure-activity relationships for inhibition of HexNAcases from various origins. 
20630753	20100716	Bioorg._Med._Chem._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Aspergillus oryzae type III polyketide synthase CsyA is involved in the biosynthesis of 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid.	As a novel superfamily of type III polyketide synthases in microbes, four genes csyA, csyB, csyC, and csyD, were found in the genome of Aspergillus oryzae, an industrially important filamentous fungus. In order to analyze their functions, we carried out the overexpression of csyA under the control of alpha-amylase promoter in A. oryzae and identified 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) as the major product. Feeding experiments using (13)C-labeled acetates confirmed that the acetate labeling pattern of DHBA coincided with that of orcinol derived from orsellinic acid, a polyketide formed by the condensation and cyclization of four acetate units. Further oxidation of methyl group of orcinol by the host fungus could lead to the production of DHBA. Comparative molecular modeling of CsyA with the crystal structure of Neurospora crassa 2'-oxoalkylresorcylic acid synthase indicated that CsyA cavity size can only accept short-chain acyl starter and tetraketide formation. Thus, CsyA is considered to be a tetraketide alkyl-resorcinol/resorcylic acid synthase. 
3925303	19850301	Mikrobiologiia	D004740 D016428 	[Simultaneous cultivation of the fungi Trichoderma longibrachiatum and Endomycopsis fibuligera].	Combined cultivation of the following microorganisms was studied: the fungus Trichoderma longibrachiatum producing cellulases and the yeast Endomycopsis fibuligera producing glucoamylase. A growth medium was found to maintain the activity of these enzymes at a high level in the both microbial monocultures. The effect of the yeast inoculation time on the enzyme activity was studied during combined cultivation of the two organisms. When the yeast was inoculated during the first two days of the fungal growth, the enzyme activities were 40-70% of those during the growth of the monocultures. The yeast did not grow when it was inoculated by the 4th day of the fungal growth. When the yeast was added to the fungus earlier, the activity of cellulases fell down. Possible reasons for these phenomena are discussed. 
20540109	20100612	Biotechnol_J	D016428 	Cellulases of Penicillium verruculosum.	Nine major cellulolytic enzymes were isolated from a culture broth of a mutant strain of the fungus Penicillium verruculosum: five endo-1, 4-beta-glucanases (EGs) having molecular masses 25, 33, 39, 52, and 70 kDa, and four cellobiohydrolases (CBHs: 50, 55, 60, and 66 kDa). Based on amino acid similarities of short sequenced fragments and peptide mass fingerprinting, the isolated enzymes were preliminary classified into different families of glycoside hydrolases: Cel5A (EG IIa, 39 kDa), Cel5B (EG IIb, 33 kDa), Cel6A (CBH II, two forms: 50 and 60 kDa), Cel7A (CBH I: 55 and 66 kDa), Cel7B (EG I: 52 and 70 kDa). The 25 kDa enzyme was identical to the previously isolated Cel12A (EG III). The family assignment was further confirmed by the studies of the substrate specificity of the purified enzymes. High-molecular-weight forms of the Cel6A, Cel7A, and Cel7B were found to possess a cellulose-binding module (CBM), while the catalytically active low-molecular-weight forms of the enzymes, as well as other cellulases, lacked the CBM. Properties of the isolated enzymes, such as substrate specificity toward different polysaccharides and synthetic glycosides, effect of pH and temperature on the enzyme activity and stability, adsorption on Avicel cellulose and kinetics of its hydrolysis, were investigated. 
10594100	19991214	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Stop-and-go movements of plant Golgi stacks are mediated by the acto-myosin system.	The Golgi apparatus in plant cells consists of a large number of independent Golgi stack/trans-Golgi network/Golgi matrix units that appear to be randomly distributed throughout the cytoplasm. To study the dynamic behavior of these Golgi units in living plant cells, we have cloned a cDNA from soybean (Glycine max), GmMan1, encoding the resident Golgi protein alpha-1,2 mannosidase I. The predicted protein of approximately 65 kD shows similarity of general structure and sequence (45% identity) to class I animal and fungal alpha-1,2 mannosidases. Expression of a GmMan1::green fluorescent protein fusion construct in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow 2 suspension-cultured cells revealed the presence of several hundred to thousands of fluorescent spots. Immuno-electron microscopy demonstrates that these spots correspond to individual Golgi stacks and that the fusion protein is largely confined to the cis-side of the stacks. In living cells, the stacks carry out stop-and-go movements, oscillating rapidly between directed movement and random "wiggling." Directed movement (maximal velocity 4.2 microm/s) is related to cytoplasmic streaming, occurs along straight trajectories, and is dependent upon intact actin microfilaments and myosin motors, since treatment with cytochalasin D or butanedione monoxime blocks the streaming motion. In contrast, microtubule-disrupting drugs appear to have a small but reproducible stimulatory effect on streaming behavior. We present a model that postulates that the stop-and-go motion of Golgi-trans-Golgi network units is regulated by "stop signals" produced by endoplasmic reticulum export sites and locally expanding cell wall domains to optimize endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi and Golgi to cell wall trafficking. 
16944346	20060901	Microb._Ecol.	D016428 D013485 	Eisenia fetida (Oligochaeta, Lumbricidae) activates fungal growth, triggering cellulose decomposition during vermicomposting.	Cellulose is the most abundant polymer in nature and constitutes a large pool of carbon for microorganisms, the main agents responsible for soil organic matter decomposition. Cellulolysis occurs as the result of the combined action of fungi and bacteria with different requirements. Earthworms influence decomposition indirectly by affecting microbial population structure and dynamics and also directly because the guts of some species possess cellulolytic activity. Here we assess whether the earthworm Eisenia fetida (Savigny 1826) digests cellulose directly (i.e., with its associated gut microbiota) and also whether the effects of E. fetida on microbial biomass and activity lead to a change in the equilibrium between fungi and bacteria. By enhancing fungal communities, E. fetida would presumably trigger more efficient cellulose decomposition. To evaluate the role of E. fetida in cellulose decomposition, we carried out an experiment in which pig slurry, a microbial-rich substrate, was treated in small-scale vermireactors with and without earthworms. The presence of earthworms in vermireactors significantly increased the rate of cellulose decomposition (0.43 and 0.26% cellulose loss day(-1), with and without earthworms, respectively). However, the direct contribution of E. fetida to degradation of cellulose was not significant, although its presence increased microbial biomass (C(mic)) and enzyme activity (cellulase and beta-glucosidase). Surprisingly, as fungi may be part of the diet of earthworms, the activity of E. fetida triggered fungal growth during vermicomposting. We suggest that this activation is a key step leading to more intense and efficient cellulolysis during vermicomposting of organic wastes. 
9830097	19981127	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D003160 D016428 	Improvement of promoter activity by the introduction of multiple copies of the conserved region III sequence, involved in the efficient expression of Aspergillus oryzae amylase-encoding genes.	The role of the conserved sequence region III in the promoter regions of the amylase-encoding genes amyB, glaA and agdA of Aspergillus oryzae was examined. Introduction of multiple copies of the region III fragment into the agdA promoter resulted in a significant increase in promoter activity at the transcriptional level. This result suggests that the fragment comprising region III consists of one or more cis-acting sequence(s). Moreover, expression of the agdA gene under the control of the improved agdA promoter resulted in efficient overproduction of alpha-glucosidase, even in the presence of glucose. Thus, overexpression of genes controlled by the improved promoter incorporating region III is possible. Interestingly, expression of the amyB and glaA genes in the transformant was strongly repressed. This result suggests that the trans-acting regulatory protein(s) that interact with region III are common to these amylase genes and that the titration of regulatory protein(s) reduced the expression of the amyB and glaA genes. 
7487098	19951110	Arch._Biochem._Biophys.	D016428 D013486 	Cloning of a new pectate lyase gene pelC from Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi (Nectria haematococca, mating type VI) and characterization of the gene product expressed in Pichia pastoris.	Antibodies prepared against a pectate lyase (PLA) produced by a phytopathogenic fungus Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi (Nectria haematococca, mating type VI) were previously found to protect the host against infection. The cDNA and gene (pelA) for PLA were cloned and sequenced. A new pectate lyase gene, pelC, was isolated from a genomic library of F. solani pisi with pelA cDNA as a probe. A 1.3-kb DNA fragment containing the pelC gene and its flanking regions was identified and sequenced. The coding region of pelC was amplified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using total RNA isolated from a pectin-induced F. solani pisi culture as template. The open reading frame of pelC was predicted to encode a 23.3-kDa protein of 219 amino acid residues, which shares 51% identity with PLA from F. solani pisi. No typical fungal leader peptide sequence could be identified at the N-terminus of the predicted protein sequence. The amplified pelC cDNA was expressed in Pichia pastoris yielding a pectate lyase C (PLC) with a molecular mass of 26.0 kDa and containing carbohydrates. PLC was purified to homogeneity using Mono Q anion-exchange chromatography. Purified PLC required Ca2+ for its activity and showed optimal lyase activity at pH 9.5 and 55 degrees C. Rapid drop in the viscosity of the substrate and Mono Q anion-exchange chromatography of the products generated by the lyase showed that PLC cleaved polygalacturonate chains in an endo fashion. Western blot using antibodies raised against PLA and PLC showed that PLC and PLA are immunologically related to each other. 
9133737	19970330	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Enhancement of protein secretion in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by overproduction of Sso protein, a late-acting component of the secretory machinery.	Increased production of secreted proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae was achieved by overexpressing the yeast syntaxins. Sso1 or Sso2 protein, the t-SNAREs functioning at the targeting/fusion of the Golgi-derived secretory vesicles to the plasma membrane. Up to four- or six-fold yields of a heterologous secreted protein, Bacillus alpha-amylase, or an endogenous secreted protein, invertase, were obtained respectively when expressing either one of the SSO genes, SSO1 or SSO2, from the ADH1 promoter on a multicopy plasmid. Direct correlation between the Sso protein level and the amount of secreted alpha-amylase was demonstrated by modulating the expression level of the SSO2 gene. Quantitation of the alpha-amylase activity in the culture medium, periplasmic space and cytoplasm suggests that secretion into the periplasmic space is the primary stage at which the SSO genes exert the secretion-enhancing function. Pulse-chase data also support enhanced secretion efficiently obtained by SSO overexpression. Our data suggest that the Sso proteins may be rate-limiting components of the protein secretion machinery at the exocytosis step in yeast. 
16478498	20060216	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Effectiveness of autochthonous bacterium and mycorrhizal fungus on Trifolium growth, symbiotic development and soil enzymatic activities in Zn contaminated soil.	This study investigates how autochthonous micro-organisms [bacterium and/or arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi] affected plant tolerance to Zn contamination. Zinc-adapted and -nonadapted Glomus mosseae strains protected the host plant against the detrimental effect of Zn (600 microg g(-1)). Zn-adapted bacteria increased root growth and N, P nutrition in plants colonized by adapted G. mosseae and decreased the specific absorption rate (SAR) of Cd, Cu, Mo or Fe in plants colonized by Zn-nonadapted G. mosseae. Symbiotic structures (nodule number and extraradical mycelium) were best developed in plants colonized by those Zn-adapted isolates that were the most effective in increasing plant Zn tolerance. The bacterium also increased the quantity and quality (metabolic characteristics) of mycorrhizal colonization, with the highest improvement for arbuscular vitality and activity. Inocula also enhanced soil enzymatic activities (dehydrogenase, beta-glucosidase and phosphatase) and indol acetic acid (IAA) accumulation, particularly in the rhizosphere of plants inoculated with Zn-adapted isolates. Glomus mosseae strains have a different inherent potential for improving plant growth and nutrition in Zn-contaminated soil. The bacterium increased the potential of mycorrhizal mycelium as inoculum. Mycorrhizal performance, particularly that of the autochthonous strain, was increased by the bacterium and both contributed to better plant growth and establishment in Zn-contaminated soils. 
728849	19781001	Can._J._Microbiol.	D016428 	Fungal exudates.	The exudates or liquid droplets on various structures of a number of fungi were examined. The droplets were enveloped in membranous material and were associated with actively growing mycelia, including fruiting structures. Osmium tetroxide vapour-fixed droplets of Claviceps purpurea, Myrothecium roridum, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Sclerotium rolfsii, and Thanathephorus cucumeris did not dry to a powder but remained intact as spheres when freeze-dried. Fractured spheres, examined with the scanning electron microscope, showed the presence of a membranous structure similar to that of rapidly frozen colloidal solutions with the ice crystals removed by sublimation. Locules or cavities within the freeze-dried droplets are thought to be due to the entrapment of air when droplets coalesce. Biochemical analyses of the exudates showed that acid phosphatase, beta-glucosidase, acid and alkaline protease. RNase polygalacturonase and cellulase enzymes as well as oxalic acid and ammonia were present. 
21269876	20110129	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning of a thermostable xylanase from Actinomadura sp. S14 and its expression in Escherichia coli and Pichia pastoris.	A thermophilic xylan-degrading Actinomadura sp. S14 was isolated from compost in Thailand. Hemicellulase activities such as endo-1,4-β-xylanase, β-xylosidase and α-arabinofuranosidase were induced with xylan-containing agriculture wastes and oat spelt xylan. The gene encoding xylanase consisting of 687bp was cloned from Actinomadura sp. S14. The deduced amino acid sequence contained a signal peptide of 41 amino acids and a probable mature xylanase of 188 amino acids. An open reading frame (xynS14) corresponding to a mature xylanase was expressed in Escherichia coli and Pichia pastoris. The specific activity of purified XynS14 (P. pastoris) was 2.4-fold higher than XynS14 (E. coli). Both XynS14s showed the same basic properties such as optimal pH and temperature (pH 6.0 and 80°C) and stability in a broad pH range (pH 5.0-11.0) and at high temperatures up to 80°C. Both XynS14s showed approximately the same substrate specificity and K(m) values toward various xylans, but XynS14 (P. pastoris) showed higher V(max) and K(cat) than XynS14 (E. coli). Higher specific activities of XynS14 (P. pastoris) may be due to protein-folding in the host. Purified XynS14 showed more endo-1,4-β-xylanase activity on xylan and xylooligosaccharides than on xylotriose. 
22227377	20120110	Biochimie	D016428 D013485 	Genes encoding hevein-like defense peptides in wheat: distribution, evolution, and role in stress response.	Hevein-like plant defense peptides WAMP-1a/b with a unique 10-Cys motif are found in the wheat Triticum kiharae seeds. Three different wamp genomic and cDNA sequences were derived from T. kiharae; no introns were spotted in the protein-coding regions of the genes. The deduced Wamp precursor proteins consist of a signal peptide, mature peptide (WAMP) and C-terminal prosequence. Origin of WAMPs from class I/IV chitinases via deletion of the catalytic domain is proposed based on homology between their genes. Genome screening of several cereals and goatgrasses from the genera Triticum and Aegilops was performed. No wamp homologues were identified in Triticum monococcum (A(b)A(b)) or Triticum urartu (A(u)A(u)), diploid species with an A genome. To the contrary, highly homologous wamp genes were discovered in hexaploid Triticum aestivum (A(u)A(u)BBDD) and T. kiharae (A(b)A(b)GGDD), and the putative genome donors Triticum timopheevii (A(b)A(b)GG), Aegilops speltoides (BB), and Aegilops tauschii (DD), providing strong evidence for the ancient origin of these genes and their association with the B, D and G genomes. The role of T. kiharae WAMPs in biotic stress is suggested by their antifungal activity and increased accumulation of wamp transcripts in response to phytopathogen challenge. Differential reaction to fungi was demonstrated: Fusarium oxysporum enhanced expression of wamp genes, whereas Aspergillus niger induced transcription reprogramming and alternative polyadenylation. WAMPs participate in plant response also to abiotic stress. Although no changes were noted at elevated or decreased temperatures, high salt concentrations enhanced wamp expression, the first indication of hevein-type peptide participation in salinity stress. 
12790630	20030607	Biotechnol._Prog.	D003160 D016428 	Protein-protein interaction conferring stability to an extracellular acetyl (xylan) esterase produced by Termitomyces clypeatus.	Acetyl esterase (AE) activity present in the culture filtrate of Termitomyces clypeatus was separated into lower molar mass (LMM) and higher molar mass (HMM) protein fractions during BioGel P-200 gel chromatography. AE was purified as a 30 kDa nonglycosylated protein from LMM fractions by CM-Sepharose ion exchange chromatography and HPGPLC. Although the HMM fraction had a number of enzyme activities (sucrase, beta-xylosidase, beta-glucosidase, and alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase) other than AE, protein present in the fraction was eluted as a single protein peak in HPGPLC and gave a single band in native PAGE. The fraction, subsequently purified by DEAE-Sephadex chromatography, was a SDS-PAGE homogeneous 80 kDa glycoprotein, but with both AE and cellobiase activities. The aggregate dissociated during ConA-Sepharose chromatography and 30 kDa AE and 56 kDa glycosylated cellobiase were purified separately. The dissociation caused significant loss of cellobiase activity but not that of AE. AE purified from both HMM and LMM fractions was characterized to be the same enzyme in terms of molar masses, pI (7.3), and other physicochemical properties. AE as an aggregate with cellobiase showed higher thermostability, temperature optimum, and resistance toward chemical denaturants than those of purified AE. Compared to cellobiase purified earlier from the same fungus, the enzyme present with AE in the aggregate also showed higher catalytic activity, thermostability, and temperature optimum. The study indicated that the formation of such SDS-resistant enzyme aggregate was associated with significant changes in the physicochemical properties of the enzymes, mainly toward improvement of rigidity of enzymes, and sometimes with the improvement of catalytic activity. 
9202474	19970601	Microbiology_(Reading,_Engl.)	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013486 	Adaptation of proteases and carbohydrates of saprophytic, phytopathogenic and entomopathogenic fungi to the requirements of their ecological niches.	The abilities of isolates of saprophytes (Neurospora crassa, Aspergillus nidulans), an opportunistic human pathogen (Aspergillus fumigatus), an opportunistic insect pathogen (Aspergillus flavus), plant pathogens (Verticillium albo-atrum, Verticillium dahliae, Nectria haematococca), a mushroom pathogen (Verticillium fungicola) and entomopathogens (Verticillium lecanii, Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium anisopliae) to utilize plant cell walls and insect cuticle components in different nutrient media were compared. The pathogens showed enzymic adaptation to the polymers present in the integuments of their particular hosts. Thus, the plant pathogens produced high levels of enzymes capable of degrading pectic polysaccharides, cellulose and xylan, as well as cutinase substrate, but secreted little or no chitinase and showed no proteolytic activity against elastin and mucin. The entomopathogens and V. fungicola degraded a broad spectrum of proteins (including elastin and mucin) but, except for chitinase, cellulase (V. lecanii and V. fungicola only) and cutinase (B. bassiana only), produced very low levels of polysaccharidases. The saprophytes (Neu. crassa and A. nidulans) and the opportunistic pathogens (A. fumigatus and A. flavus) produced the broadest spectrum of protein and polysaccharide degrading enzymes, indicative of their less specialized nutritional status. V. lecanii and V. albo-atrum were compared in more detail to identity factors that distinguish plant and insect pathogens. V. albo-atrum, but not V. lecanii, grew well on different plant cell wall components. The major class of proteases produced in different media by isolates of V. albo-atrum and V. dahliae were broad spectrum basic (pI > 10) trypsins which degrade Z-AA-AA-Arg-NA substrates (Z, benzoyl; AA, various amino acids; Na, nitroanilide), hide protein azure and insect (Manduca sexta) cuticles. Analogous peptidases were produced by isolates of V. lecanii and V. fungicola but they were specific for Z-Phe-Val-Arg-NA. V. albo-atrum and V. dahliae also produced low levels of neutral (pI ca 7) and basic (pI ca 9.5) subtilisin-like proteases active against a chymotrypsin substrate (Succinyl-Ala2-Pro-Phe-NA) and insect cuticle. In contrast, subtilisins comprised the major protease component secreted by V. lecanii and V. fungicola. Both V. lecanii and V. albo-atrum produced the highest levels of subtilisin and trypsin-like activities during growth on collagen or insect cuticle. Results are discussed in terms of the adaptation of fungi to the requirements of their ecological niches. 
11117313	20001216	Carbohydr._Res.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	New syntheses of 1D- and 1L-1,2-anhydro-myo-inositol and assessment of their glycosidase inhibitory activities.	The 1D and 1L enantiomers of 1,2-anhydro-myo-inositol (conduritol B epoxide) were synthesised from 1D-pinitol and 1L-quebrachitol, respectively, and their activities were compared in selected glycosidase inhibition assays. The 1D enantiomer was found to be the active isomer, functioning as an irreversible inhibitor of sweet almond beta-D-glucosidase. Neither isomer was active against the alpha-D-glucosidase from Bacillus stearothermophilus or the beta-D-galactosidase from Aspergillus oryzae. 
18574560	20080625	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Induced hydrolytic enzymes of ectomycorrhizal fungi against pathogen Rhizoctonia solani.	Interactions between ectomycorrhizal fungi (Suillus laricinus, S. tomentosus, Amanita vaginata and Gomphidius viscidus) and the pathogen Rhizoctonia solani in co-culture were studied using both light and scanning electron microscopy. S. laricinus, S. tomentosus and A. vaginata inhibited the growth of the pathogen. Moreover, A. vaginata exhibited coiling around and penetration of the hyphae into R. solani was observed in the interaction zone. Furthermore, the production of chitinases, beta-1,3-glucanases and beta-glucosidases by these ectomycorrhizal fungi on colloidal chitin or cell walls of R. solani was evaluated: chitinases were not induced by colloidal chitin but all three enzymes were induced by R. solani cell walls. No correlation between inhibition rate and production of lytic enzymes was found. 
2160276	19900508	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 	The cell cycle modulated glycoprotein GP115 is one of the major yeast proteins containing glycosylphosphatidylinositol.	The cell cycle modulated protein gp115 (115 kDa, isoelectric point about 4.8-5) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae undergoes various post-translational modifications. It is N-glycosylated during its maturation along the secretory pathway where an intermediary precursor of 100 kDa (p100), dynamically related to the mature gp115 protein, is detected at the level of endoplasmic reticulum. Moreover, we have shown by the use of metabolic labeling with [35S]methionine, [3H]palmitic acid and myo-[3H]inositol combined with high resolution two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and immunoprecipitation with a specific antiserum, that gp115 is one of the major palmitate- and inositol-containing proteins in yeast. These results, and the susceptibility of gp115 to phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C treatment strongly indicate that gp115 contains the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) structure as membrane anchor domain. The two-dimensional analysis of the palmitate- and inositol-labeled proteins has also allowed the characterization of other polypeptides which possibly contain a GPI structure. 
8795256	19960101	Acta_Microbiol._Pol.	D016428 	Physiological and biochemical changes induced by osmolality in halotolerant aspergilli.	Aspergillus ventii and Aspergillus parasiticus halotolerant and alkali-resistant fungi were isolated from hypersaline soil of Wadi El-Natroun, Egypt by using a complex medium of high salt concentration (20% NaCl [w/v]). They were able to grow and resist the salt stress to about 20-25% NaCl and the alkaline condition tentatively to pH about 10.5. The presence of high salt concentration distorts the sporogenesis and stunt the conidiophores as well as inhibits the antimicrobial agent(s) and some extracellular hydrolytic enzymes (lipase(s) and amylase(s)). The application of some exogenous compatible solutes particularly trehalose, alpha-ketoglutarate and glycerol improves the growth and increases the resistance to salt stress (osmolality) of the two fungal isolates to about 27.5-29% NaCl (w/v). Results of the biochemical analysis (total soluble proteins, carbohydrates and lipids) PAGE and TLC of amino acid analysis support the suggestion that each species of Aspergillus has a specific mechanism for adaptation. 
23830995	20130709	Curr._Opin._Plant_Biol.	D016428 D052061 D013485 D013486 D016454 	Inside the trap: gland morphologies, digestive enzymes, and the evolution of plant carnivory in the Caryophyllales.	The digestion of prey by carnivorous plants is determined in part by suites of enzymes that are associated with morphologically and anatomically diverse trapping mechanisms. Chitinases represent a group of enzymes known to be integral to effective plant carnivory. In non-carnivorous plants, chitinases commonly act as pathogenesis-related proteins, which are either induced in response to insect herbivory and fungal elicitors, or constitutively expressed in tissues vulnerable to attack. In the Caryophyllales carnivorous plant lineage, multiple classes of chitinases are likely involved in both pathogenic response and digestion of prey items. We review what is currently known about trap morphologies, provide an examination of the diversity, roles, and evolution of chitinases, and examine how herbivore and pathogen defense mechanisms may have been coopted for plant carnivory in the Caryophyllales.  
1366744	19900701	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Enhancement and stabilization of the production of glucoamylase by immobilized cells of Aureobasidium pullulans in a fluidized-bed reactor.	Glucoamylase production by Aureobasidium pullulans A-124 was compared in free-living cells, cells immobilized in calcium alginate gel beads aerated on a rotary shaker (agitation rate 150 rpm), and immobilized cells aerated in an air bubble column reactor. Fermentation conditions in the bioreactor were established for bead concentration, substrate (starch) concentration, calcium chloride addition to the fermentation medium, and rate of aeration. Production of glucoamylase was optimized at approximately 1.5 units of enzyme activity/ml medium in the bioreactor under the following conditions: aeration rate, 2.0 vol air per working volume of the bioreactor (280 ml) per minute; gel bead concentration, 30% of the working volume; substrate (starch) concentration, at 0.3% (w/v); addition of calcium chloride to the medium at a final concentration of 0.01 M. Productivity levels were stabilized through the equivalent of ten batches of medium with the original inoculum of immobilized beads. 
12750855	20030517	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Degradation of an endocrine disrupting chemical, DEHP [di-(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate], by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. pisi cutinase.	The efficiency of two lypolytic enzymes (fungal cutinase, yeast esterase) in the degradation of di-(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate (DEHP) was investigated. The DEHP-degradation rate of fungal cutinase was surprisingly high, i.e. almost 70% of the initial DEHP (500 mg/l) was decomposed within 2.5 h and nearly 50% of the degraded DEHP disappeared within the initial 15 min. With the yeast esterase, despite the same concentration, more than 85% of the DEHP remained even after 3 days of treatment. During the enzymatic degradation of DEHP, several DEHP-derived compounds were detected and time-course changes in composition were also monitored. During degradation with fungal cutinase, most DEHP was converted into 1,3-isobenzofurandione (IBF) by diester hydrolysis. In the degradation by yeast esterase, two organic chemicals were produced from DEHP: IBF and an unidentified compound (X). The final chemical composition after 3 days was significantly dependent on the enzyme used. Fungal cutinase produced IBF as a major degradation compound. However, in the DEHP degradation by yeast esterase, compound X was produced in abundance in addition to IBF. The toxic effects of the final degradation products were investigated, using various recombinant bioluminescent bacteria and, as a result, the degradation products from yeast esterase were shown to contain a toxic hazard, causing oxidative stress and damage to protein synthesis. 
2087205	19901101	Mikrobiologiia	D004740 D016428 	[Anaerobic cellulolytic fungi from cattle rumen].	Two anaerobic fungal strains, Neocallimastix sp. 71 and Piromonas sp. 12, were isolated from cattle rumen. Their motile zoospores have either one (strain 12) or several (strain 71) flagella. The spores get attached to a substrate, germinate and form a branched rhizoid with one sporangium within which a new generation of zoospores appears after 24 h, on the average. Both fungi have a temperature optimum at 39 degrees C and a pH optimum at 6.5-6.7. They can utilize a wide spectrum of mono-, oligo- and polysaccharides. Strain 71 produces acetate, formate, ethanol and lactate while strain 12 forms acetate, formate, lactate and traces of ethanol as main products accumulated upon the fermentation of wheat straw, filter paper and cellobiose in a liquid semidefined medium. Both strains exert the activities of CMCase, Avicelase, cellobiase, amylase and xylanase. 
12668107	20030402	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	New polygalacturonases from Trichoderma reesei: characterization and their specificities to partially methylated and acetylated pectins.	Two extracellular isoenzymes of polygalacturonases PG1 and PG2 were isolated from 3-day-old culture filtrates of Trichoderma reesei. The two enzymes were purified to homogeneity by ion-exchange, gel filtration and hydrophobic interaction chromatographies. PG1 and PG2 exhibit similar molecular weights from gel filtration and SDS-PAGE. Their properties, including optimal pH and temperature, thermal stability and Km were compared. Characterization of substrate specificity showed that the two enzymes had higher affinity toward PGA (B0100) derived from sugar beet pectin (SBP) than PGA from lime pectin. A series of SBPs with different distribution patterns of methyl and acetyl groups, produced by treatment with either plant pectin methylesterase (P-series) or fungal pectin methylesterase (F-series) or base catalysis (B-series), was used as substrates for PG1 and PG2. Substrates with a low degree of esterification were preferred substrates. The activities of PG1 and PG2 were strongly correlated to the degree of methylation and very little effect from acetylation. The products generated by digestion of selected lime and SBPs were analysed using matrix assisted laser desorption ionisation time of flight (MALDI TOF) MS. A mode of action revealed a random cleavage pattern for PG1 and PG2, confirming that these enzymes are endopolygalacturonases. 
235428	19750203	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Extracellular enzyme system utilized by the fungus Sporotrichum pulverulentum (Chrysosporium lignorum) for the breakdown of cellulose. 3. Purification and physico-chemical characterization of an exo-1,4-beta-glucanase.	An exo-1,4-beta-glucanase from culture solution of the rot fungus Sporotrichum pulverulentum (formerly called Chrysosporium lignorum) grown on powder cellulose as the sole carbon source has been extensively purified and characterized with respect to some physico-chemical properties. The purification has been carried out in a five-step procedure comprising chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex, gel filtration on polyacrylamide P-150, activation on a Dowex 2-X8 anion exchanger, chromatography on Concanavalin A-Sepharose and chromatography on SP-Sephadex. The purified enzyme was found to be pure and homogeneous by analytical polyacrylamide electrophoresis, by electrophoresis on dodecylsulphate gels and by analytical polyacrylamide electrophoresis, by electrophoresis on dodecylsulphate gels and by analytical isoelectric focusing. A single symmetrical peak was obtained with the free zone electrophoresis method. The purification factor is about 15 and the yield of exo-1,4-beta-glucanase activity 7%. After purification, the enzyme showed no viscosity-decreasing activity towards carboxymethyl-cellulose solutions. The exo-1,4-beta-glucanase was isoelectric at pH 4.3 (4 degrees C). A molecular weight of 48600 was calculated on the basis of a knowledge of the partial specific volume, ultracentrifugation data and the amino acid composition. The enzyme contained no carbohydrate. 
12885168	20030730	Transgenic_Res.	D016428 D013485 	Co-expression of a modified maize ribosome-inactivating protein and a rice basic chitinase gene in transgenic rice plants confers enhanced resistance to sheath blight.	Chitinases, beta-1,3-glucanases, and ribosome-inactivating proteins are reported to have antifungal activity in plants. With the aim of producing fungus-resistant transgenic plants, we co-expressed a modified maize ribosome-inactivating protein gene, MOD1, and a rice basic chitinase gene, RCH10, in transgenic rice plants. A construct containing MOD1 and RCH10 under the control of the rice rbcS and Act1 promoters, respectively, was co-transformed with a plasmid containing the herbicide-resistance gene bar as a selection marker into rice by particle bombardment. Several transformants analyzed by genomic Southern-blot hybridization demonstrated integration of multiple copies of the foreign gene into rice chromosomes. Immunoblot experiments showed that MOD1 formed approximately 0.5% of the total soluble protein in transgenic leaves. RCH10 expression was examined using the native polyacrylamide-overlay gel method, and high RCH10 activity was observed in leaf tissues where endogenous RCH10 is not expressed. R1 plants were analyzed in a similar way, and the Southern-blot patterns and levels of transgene expression remained the same as in the parental line. Analysis of the response of R2 plants to three fungal pathogens of rice, Rhizoctonia solani, Bipolaris oryzae, and Magnaporthe grisea, indicated statistically significant symptom reduction only in the case of R. solani (sheath blight). The increased resistance co-segregated with herbicide tolerance, reflecting a correlation between the resistance phenotype and transgene expression. 
573586	19790601	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 	Chitin-binding hemagglutinin produced by Conidiobolus strains.	A hemagglutinin was produced by strains of Conidiobolus which also produce beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase. Activity of the hemagglutinin was inhibited by D-glucosamine, N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, D-mannosamine, and beta-N-acetyl-D-glucosaminides but not by D-glucose, D-mannose, and alpha-N-acetyl-D-glucosaminides. 
12552912	20030130	Wei_Sheng_Wu_Xue_Bao	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Production and some properties of a beta-glucanase from Trichoderma sp. GXC].	The factors affecting Trichoderma sp. GXC for beta-glucanase (1,3-1,4-beta-D-glucan 4-glucanohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.73) production have been investigated, the optimal conditions were that carbon and nitrogen sources were bran and ammonium sulfate, respectively, initial pH 4.0-5.0, shaken at 30 degrees C for 44 h. beta-glucanase was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity by using ammonium sulfate precipitation, Sephadex G-100 and DEAE-Sephadex A-50 chromatography. It's molecular weight was 35 kD by SDS-PAGE, and the enzyme functioned optimally at pH6.0 and 50 degrees C, respectively. In addition, the enzyme was stable at pH 4.0-5.0 and below 40 degrees C. The beta-glucanase activity was significantly inhibited by Fe3+ and stimulated by Co2+, respectively. 
10413461	19990722	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Structural changes of the active site tunnel of Humicola insolens cellobiohydrolase, Cel6A, upon oligosaccharide binding.	The mechanisms of crystalline cellulose degradation by cellulases are of paramount importance for the exploitation of these enzymes in applied processes, such as biomass conversion. Cellulases have traditionally been classified into cellobiohydrolases, which are effective in the degradation of crystalline materials, and endoglucanases, which appear to act on "soluble" regions of the substrate. Humicola insolensCel6A (CBH II) is a cellobiohydrolase from glycoside hydrolase family 6 whose native structure has been determined at 1.9 A resolution [Varrot, A., Hastrup, S., Schülein, M., and Davies, G. J. (1999) Biochem. J. 337, 297-304]. Here we present the structure of the catalytic core domain of Humicola insolens cellobiohydrolase II Cel6A in complex with glucose/cellotetraose at 1.7 A resolution. Crystals of Cel6A, grown in the presence of cellobiose, reveal six binding subsites, with a single glucose moiety bound in the -2 subsite and cellotetraose in the +1 to +4 subsites. The complex structure is strongly supportive of the assignment of Asp 226 as the catalytic acid and consistent with proposals that Asp 405 acts as the catalytic base. The structure undergoes several conformational changes upon substrate binding, the most significant of which is a closing of the two active site loops (residues 174-196 and 397-435) with main-chain movements of up to 4.5 A observed. This complex not only defines the polysaccharide-enzyme interactions but also provides the first three-dimensional demonstration of conformational change in this class of enzymes. 
18406638	20080415	Fungal_Genet._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	EglD, a putative endoglucanase, with an expansin like domain is localized in the conidial cell wall of Aspergillus nidulans.	Although the process of conidial germination in filamentous fungi has been extensively studied, many aspects remain to be elucidated since the asexual spore or conidium is vital in their life cycle. Breakage and reformation of cell wall polymer bonds along with the maintenance of cell wall plasticity during conidia germination depend upon a range of hydrolytic enzymes whose activity is analogous to that of expansins, a highly conserved group of plant cell wall proteins with characteristic wall loosening activity. In the current study, we identified and characterized the eglD gene in Aspergillus nidulans, an expansin-like gene the product of which shows strong similarities with bacterial and fungal endo-beta1,4-glucanases. However, we failed to show such activity in vitro. The eglD gene is constitutively expressed in all developmental stages and compartments of A. nidulans asexual life cycle. However, the EglD protein is exclusively present in conidial cell walls. The role of the EglD protein in morphogenesis, growth and germination rate of conidia was investigated. Our results show that EglD is a conidial cell wall localized expansin-like protein, which could be involved in cell wall remodeling during germination. 
22992734	20120921	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Direct tests of enzymatic heme degradation by the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum.	Malaria parasites generate vast quantities of heme during blood stage infection via hemoglobin digestion and limited de novo biosynthesis, but it remains unclear if parasites metabolize heme for utilization or disposal. Recent in vitro experiments with a heme oxygenase (HO)-like protein from Plasmodium falciparum suggested that parasites may enzymatically degrade some heme to the canonical HO product, biliverdin (BV), or its downstream metabolite, bilirubin (BR). To directly test for BV and BR production by P. falciparum parasites, we DMSO-extracted equal numbers of infected and uninfected erythrocytes and developed a sensitive LC-MS/MS assay to quantify these tetrapyrroles. We found comparable low levels of BV and BR in both samples, suggesting the absence of HO activity in parasites. We further tested live parasites by targeted expression of a fluorescent BV-binding protein within the parasite cytosol, mitochondrion, and plant-like plastid. This probe could detect exogenously added BV but gave no signal indicative of endogenous BV production within parasites. Finally, we recombinantly expressed and tested the proposed heme degrading activity of the HO-like protein, PfHO. Although PfHO bound heme and protoporphyrin IX with modest affinity, it did not catalyze heme degradation in vivo within bacteria or in vitro in UV absorbance and HPLC assays. These observations are consistent with PfHO's lack of a heme-coordinating His residue and suggest an alternative function within parasites. We conclude that P. falciparum parasites lack a canonical HO pathway for heme degradation and thus rely fully on alternative mechanisms for heme detoxification and iron acquisition during blood stage infection. 
15748690	20050308	Biomol._Eng.	D003160 D023362 D016428 	Effect of low oxygen concentrations on growth and alpha-amylase production of Aspergillus oryzae in model solid-state fermentation systems.	Oxygen transfer in the fungal mat is a major concern in solid-state fermentation (SSF). Oxygen supply into the mycelial layers is hampered by diffusion limitation. For aerobic fungi, like Aspergillus oryzae, this oxygen depletion can be a severely limiting factor for growth and metabolite production. This paper describes the effects of a low oxygen concentration on growth at the levels of individual hyphae, colonies and overcultures, and on alpha-amylase production in overcultures. PDA medium was used to study the effect of a low oxygen concentration on hyphal elongation rate and branching frequency of hyphae, and radial extension rate of colonies of A. oryzae. We found similar saturation constants (K(O2)) of 0.1% (v/v in the gas phase) for oxygen concentration described with Monod kinetics, for branching frequency of hyphae and colony extension rate. When A. oryzae was grown as an over-culture on wheat-flour model substrate at 0.25% (v/v) oxygen concentration, the reduction in growth was more pronounced than as individual hyphae and a colony on PDA medium. Experimental results also showed that the specific alpha-amylase production rate under the condition of 0.25% (v/v) oxygen was reduced. Because the value of K(O2) is relatively low, it is reasonable to simplify the kinetics of growth of A. oryzae to zero-order kinetics in coupled diffusion/reaction models. 
16366715	20051222	J._Agric._Food_Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Determination of the secondary structure of Kluyveromyces lactis beta-galactosidase by circular dichroism and its structure-activity relationship as a function of the pH.	The secondary structure of Kluyveromyces lactis beta-galactosidase was determined by circular dichroism. It is mainly a beta-type protein, having 22% beta-turns, 14% parallel beta-sheet, 25% antiparallel beta-sheet, 34% unordered structure, and only 5% alpha-helix. The structure-activity relationship as a function of the pH was also studied. The pH conditions leading to the highest secondary structure content (100% ellipticity) of the enzyme was found at pH 7.0; at pH 6.5-7.0, the percent ellipticity decreased slightly, suggesting little structural change, but the activity decreased significantly, probably because of variations in critical residues. On the other hand, at pH's above 7.0, a more noticeable change in ellipticity was observed due to structural changes; the CD analysis showed a small increase in the helical content toward higher pH, whereas the maximum activity was found at pH 7.5, meaning that the changes produced in the secondary structure at this pH favored the interaction between the enzyme and the substrate. 
9469756	19980220	Poult._Sci.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	The effects of enzyme and inorganic phosphorus supplements in wheat- and rye-based diets on laying hen performance, energy, and phosphorus availability.	A total of 640 22-wk-old pullets (Shaver SX 288) housed four birds per cage in 40 experimental units (four cages per unit), were randomly assigned eight experimental diets in a 2 x 2 x 2 factorial arrangement. The treatments consisting of two grain sources (wheat and rye) two levels each of crude enzyme preparation (0 and 0.1% Roxazyme G), and added inorganic phosphorus (0 and 0.105%) were fed for five 4-wk periods. At 42 wk of age, 40 individually caged layers were fed the experimental diets with 0.3% chromic oxide (5 individual birds per treatment) to determine AMEn and available P. Plasma P and Ca were also determined. Egg production, feed intake (FI), egg weight, feed efficiency (FE), and specific gravity of eggs were significantly (P < or = 0.05) affected by the experimental periods. Hens fed wheat-based diets had higher (P < or = 0.05) tibia ash (54.3 vs 52.5%), excreta dry matter (22.0 vs 17.7%), and eggshells with > or = 1.080 specific gravity (93.5 vs 89.9%) than birds fed rye. Enzyme supplementation significantly improved AMEn (P < or = 0.01) and FE by 6.2 and 3%, respectively. Egg production increased numerically from 87.6 to 90.1%. Inorganic P supplementation significantly increased egg production (P < or = 0.01), FI, FE, and AMEn (P < or = 0.05) by 4.4, 2, 3, and 2.8%, respectively, but significantly (P < or = 0.05) decreased the proportion of eggs having a specific gravity > or = 1.080 from 92.8 to 90.6%. The enzyme and inorganic P supplementation had no effect on tibia ash content and total plasma Ca and P. Rye can be used in layer rations yielding satisfactory performance when fed with a fungal crude enzyme preparation high in pentosanase/xylanase activity. 
19073263	20081217	Protein_Expr._Purif.	D016428 D013485 	Heterologous expression in Escherichia coli of Neurospora crassa neutral trehalase as an active enzyme.	Neutral trehalase from Neurospora crassa was expressed in Escherichia coli as a polypeptide of approximately 84 kDa in agreement with the theoretical size calculated from the corresponding cDNA. The recombinant neutral trehalase, purified by affinity chromatography exhibited a specific activity of 80-150 mU/mg protein. Optima of pH and temperature were 7.0 and 30 degrees C, respectively. The enzyme was absolutely specific for trehalose, and was quite sensitive to incubation at 40 degrees C. The recombinant enzyme was totally dependent on calcium, and was inhibited by ATP, copper, silver, aluminium and cobalt. K(M) was 42 mM, and V(max) was 30.6 nmol of glucose/min. The recombinant protein was phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase, but not significantly activated. Immunoblotting with polyclonal antiserum prepared against the recombinant protein showed that neutral trehalase protein levels increased during exponential phase of N. crassa growth and dropped at the stationary phase. This is the first report of a neutral trehalase produced in E. coli with similar biochemical properties described for fungi native neutral trehalases, including calcium-dependence. 
10385327	19990629	Nat._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Transformation of Aspergillus awamori by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated homologous recombination.	Agrobacterium tumefaciens is known to transfer part of its tumor-inducing (Ti) plasmid to the filamentous fungus Aspergillus awamori by illegitimate recombination with the fungal genome. Here, we show that when this Ti DNA shares homology with the A. awamori genome, integration can also occur by homologous recombination. On the basis of this finding, we have developed an efficient method for constructing recombinant mold strains free from bacterial DNA by A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Multiple copies of a gene can be integrated rapidly at a predetermined locus in the genome, yielding transformants free of bacterial antibiotic resistance genes or other foreign DNA. Recombinant A. awamori strains were constructed containing up to nine copies of a Fusarium solani pisi cutinase expression cassette integrated in tandem at the pyrG locus. This allowed us to study how mRNA and protein levels are affected by gene copy number, without the influence of chromosomal environmental effects. Cutinase mRNA and protein were maximal with four gene copies, indicating a limitation at the transcriptional level. This transformation system will potentially stimulate market acceptance of derived products by avoiding introduction of bacterial and other foreign DNA into the fungi. 
8873446	19960801	Yeast	D016428 D013485 	Cloning, mapping and characterization of a genomic copy of the Lipomyces kononenkoae alpha-amylase-encoding gene (LKA1).	The expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe of a cDNA copy of the Lipomyces kononenkoae IGC4052B alpha-amylase gene (LKA1), linked to the phosphoglycerate kinase gene (PGK1) promoter, resulted in the extracellular production of biologically active alpha-amylase (LKA1). However, transformation of S. cerevisiae and Schiz. pombe with a cosmid clone containing the complete genomic copy of LKA1, expressed from its native promoter, did not result in secretion of active alpha-amylase by any of the transformants. When the cDNA copy of LKA1 was expressed in S. cerevisiae under control of the wild-type L, kononenkoae promoter, biologically active alpha-amylase was secreted into the culture medium, indicating the recognition of the LKA1 promoter in S. cerevisiae. Sequence analysis of the GC-rich LKA1 promoter revealed canonical sequences that are homologous to the TATAAA, CAAT and CCAAT boxes and GCN4-binding sites that are present in several promoter sequences of S. cerevisiae. Primer extension analysis of LKA1 transcripts in L. kononenkoae indicated major initiation sites at nucleotides -64 and -65. S. cerevisiae and Schiz. pombe cells transformed with a plasmid containing the open reading frame of the genomic copy of LKA1, linked to the PGK1 promoter, did not produce alpha-amylase. Polymerase chain reaction mapping and sequence analysis revealed the presence of a 61-bp intron in the genomic copy of LKA1 that impaired synthesis of biologically active alpha-amylase in S. cerevisiae and Schiz. pombe. This intron contains donor, acceptor and branch sequences that correlate with the consensus sequences identified in the introns of split genes from Schiz. pombe and mammals. Pulsed-field gradient gel electrophoresis resolved at least eight chromosomal DNAs for L. kononenkoae IGC4052B and chromoblot analysis indicated that LKA1 is located on the second smallest chromosome, designated chromosome II. 
3268297	19880601	Microbiologia	D003160 D004740 D016428 	[Induction of cellulases and xylanases in Aureobasidium pullulans].	The specificity or induction of wood-degrading enzymes using series of mono, di or polysaccharides as carbon source for the yeasts Geotrichum candidum and Trychosporon penicillatum and the yeast-like organism Aureobadidium pullulans were studied. The strain A. pullulans was the only one that when xylan or "steam exploded wood" were used as carbon source all the enzymes tested were found. This strain was unable to grow on carboxymethyl or Avicel cellulose. D-xylose was the nutritional inducer of beta-xylosidase and beta-xylanase but D-glucuronic acid induced CMCase activity and beta-glucosidase was produced with every carbon source. The 1,4 beta-xylobiose was not an inducer of beta-xylanase but with the structural 1,2-beta- and 1,3-beta-xylobiose isomers high levels of this enzyme were obtained. 
23876135	20130724	Prep._Biochem._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Assessment of Cryptococcus albidus for biopulping of eucalyptus.	Cryptococcus albidus shows delignification activity in nature. It was used for the biopulping of eucalyptus wood (Eucalyptus grandis) to access its potential for industrial application in the pulp and paper industry. Enzyme analysis on days 15, 30, and 60 showed the presence of laccase and xylanase as key enzymes. The production of endo-glucanase (CMCase) and exo-glucanase (FPase) was very low. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed the surface colonization of wood and loosening of wood fibers in C. albidus-treated samples. Fourier-transformation infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) indicated the chemical modification of eucalyptus wood. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis on days 15, 30, and 60 confirmed the presence of C. albidus throughout the experiments. Cryptococcu albidus was able to suppress the growth of a native population. Further, after 60 days both the control and treated eucalyptus wood chips were given kraft pulping treatment. The kappa number of pulp of control wood was 21 and for treated wood was 17. Kappa number is considered a measure of lignin content in wood; hence the treatment of eucalyptus by C. albidus (biopulping) was effective in reducing its lignin content and can be used for biopulping in the pulp and paper industry.  
17897233	20070928	J._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Cloning and characterization of bgn16.3, coding for a beta-1,6-glucanase expressed during Trichoderma harzianum mycoparasitism.	To clone and characterize the gene coding for BGN16.3, a beta-1,6-glucanase putatively implicated in mycoparasitism by Trichoderma harzianum, a biocontrol agent used against plant pathogenic fungi. Using degenerate primed PCR and cDNA library screening, we have cloned the cDNA coding BGN16.3. bgn16.3 showed a significant sequence identity (50%) to bgn16.1; however, they both have low identity to the previously cloned bgn16.2, allowing the identification of amino acid sequences putatively involved in the common catalytic activity of the three proteins. bgn16.3 is a single-copy gene and highly homologous sequences are present in all tested Trichoderma species. bgn16.3 expression pattern is analysed by Northern blot, finding that it is expressed during the interaction of T. harzianum CECT 2413 with Botrytis cinerea, supporting the implication of the enzyme in the mycoparasitic process. The cloned bgn16.3 completes the knowledge on the beta-1,6-glucanase isozyme system from T. harzianum CECT 2413. A highly homologous gene is present in all analysed Trichoderma strains. bgn16.3 is expressed under few specific conditions, including the mycoparasitic process. This study contributes to the knowledge of beta-1,6-glucanases. It implicates this group of enzymes in the mycoparasitism by some biocontrol agents such as T. harzianum. 
22567887	20120510	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 D013485 	[Production of enzyme preparations on the basis of Penicillum canescens recombinant strains with a high ability for the hydrolysis of plant materials].	An enzyme preparation has been produced on the basis of Penicillium canescens strains with the activity of cellibiohydrolase I, II; endo-1,4-beta-gluconase of Penicillium verruculosum; and beta-glucosidase of Aspergillus niger. It was shown that for the most effective hydrolysis of aspen wood pulp the optimal ratio of cellobiohydrolase and endo- 1,4-3-gluconase in enzyme preparations was 8 : 2 (by protein). It was also established that the homologous xylanase secreted by the Penicillium canescens fungus is a required component for the enzyme complex for hydrolysis of the hemicellulose matrix of aspen wood. 
11559354	20010918	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 	Neurotensin induces mating in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells that express human neurotensin receptor type 1 in place of the endogenous pheromone receptor.	Heterologous expression of the human neurotensin receptor type I (hNT1-R) has been achieved in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Immunoanalysis of membranes prepared from cells expressing a c-myc-tagged version of hNT1-R revealed multiple c-myc cross-reacting polypeptides of high molecular mass, suggesting that hNT1-R was glycosylated in yeast. High-affinity binding sites for 125I-labeled-[monoiodo-Tyr3]neurotensin ([125I-Tyr3]NT) were detected on hNT1-R-expressing cells with Kd and Bmax values of 3.2 nM and of 500 receptors per cell, respectively. Competition binding studies of neurotensin with SR142948 and SR48692, two nonpeptidic antagonists of hNT1-R, indicated that the yeast-produced recombinant receptor displayed the same pharmacological properties as hNT1-R expressed in mammalian cells. Interestingly, neurotensin activated the pheromone pathway in hNT1-R-expressing cells in a dose-dependent fashion, as revealed by a beta-galactosidase activity assay with a pheromone-responsive Fus1:lacZ construct. Mutational inactivation of the SST2 and STE2 genes increased the level of beta-galactosidase activity in response to neurotensin by twofold. Recombinant hNT1-R-producing cells, which lacked the endogenous G-protein-coupled receptor for the alpha pheromone, mated with wild-type MATalpha haploid cells in response to neurotensin, leading to bona fide diploid zygote formation. This is the first report of a mammalian receptor that can replace the endogenous pheromone receptor when produced in yeast, by signaling a fully effective, agonist-induced, mating process. 
20102533	20100128	Plant_Biotechnol._J.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Targeting expression of a fungal ferulic acid esterase to the apoplast, endoplasmic reticulum or golgi can disrupt feruloylation of the growing cell wall and increase the biodegradability of tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea).	In the cell walls of grasses, ferulic acid is esterified to arabinoxylans and undergoes oxidative reactions to form ferulates dimers, trimers and oligomers. Feruloylation of arabinoxylan is considered important not only because it leads to cross-linked xylans but also because ferulates may act as a nucleating site for the formation of lignin and hence link arabinoxylans to lignin by forming a lignin-ferulate-arabinoxylan complex. Such cross-linking is among the main factors inhibiting the release of fermentable carbohydrates from grasses either for ruminant nutrition or for biofuel production. We have found that significant reductions in the levels of monomeric and dimeric phenolics can be achieved in the growing cell walls during plant development in leaves of Festuca arundinacea by constitutive intracellular targeted expression of Aspergillus niger ferulic acid esterase (FAEA). We propose that this occurred by directly disrupting ester bonds linking phenolics to cell wall polysaccharides by apoplast targeting or by preventing excessive feruloylation of cell wall carbohydrates prior to their incorporation into the cell wall, by targeting to the Golgi membrane system. Plants with lower cell wall ferulate levels, which showed increased digestibility and increased rates of cellulase-mediated release of fermentable sugars, were identified. Targeting FAE to the Golgi was found to be more effective than targeting to the ER, which supports the current theories of the Golgi as the site of feruloylation of arabinoxylans. It is concluded that targeting FAEA expression to the Golgi or apoplast is likely to be an effective strategy for improving wall digestibility in grass species used for fodder or cellulosic ethanol production. 
22733389	20120627	J._Basic_Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Optimization of media components for chitinase production by chickpea rhizosphere associated Lysinibacillus fusiformis B-CM18.	Chitinase producing strain B-CM18 was isolated from chickpea rhizosphere and identified as Lysinibacillus fusiformis B-CM18. It showed in vitro antifungal activity against a wide range of fungal plant pathogens and was found to produce several PGPR activities. Further, a multivariate response surface methodology was used to evaluate the effects of different factors on chitinolytic activity and optimizing enzyme production. A central composite design was employed to achieve the highest chitinase production at optimum values of the process variables, viz., temperature (20-45 °C), sodium chloride (2-7%), starch (0.1-1%) and yeast extract (0.1-1%), added in the minimal medium supplemented with colloidal chitin (1-10%; w:w). The fit of the model (R(2)  = 0.5692) was found to be significant. The production medium to achieve the highest chitinase production (101 U ml(-1) ) was composed of the minimal medium composed of chitin (6.09%), NaCl (4.5%), starch (0.55%) and yeast extract (0.55%) with temperature (32.5 °C). The results show that the optimization strategy led to an increase in chitinase production by 56.1-fold. The molecular mass of the chitinase was estimated to be 20 kDa by anion exchange and gel filtration chromatography. Further, purified chitinase showed strong antifungal activity against test pathogens. Overall, these results may serve as a base line data for enhancing the chitinolytic potential of bacterial antagonists for bio-management of chickpea pathogens. 
22642119	20120531	Ukr_Biokhim_Zh_(1999)	D004740 D016428 	[Influence of metal ions and specific chemical reagents on activity of alpha-L-rhamnosidase of Eupenicillium erubescens].	The effect of cations, anions and specific chemical reagents: 1-[3-(dimethylamino) propyl]-3-ethylcarbodiimide methiodide, EDTA, o-phenanthroline, dithiotreitol, L-cysteine, beta-mercaptoethanol, p-chlormercurybenzoate (p-ChMB), N-ethylmaleimide on the activity of alpha-L-rhamnosidase of Eupenicillium erubescens has been investigated. The essential role of Ag+ and Hg2+ which inhibit the alpha-L-rhamnosidase activity by 47-73% has been shown. Whereas L-cysteine exhibits the protective effect, rhamnose in concentration of 1-5 mM does not protect the enzyme from negative effect of Ag+ and Hg2+. Basing on the inhibitory and kinetic analysis it was supposed that the carboxyl group of C-terminal aminoacid and imidazole group of histidine take part in the catalytic action of alpha-L-rhamnosidase. It was assumed that sulphydryl groups took part in catalysis, carried out by alpha-L-rhamnosidase of E. erubescens, since the activity of alpha-L-rhamnosidase inhibited by p-ChMB and thiol reagents such as dithiothreitol, L-cysteine, beta-mercaptoethanol did not remove its inhibitory action. 
8755548	19960723	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular evidence that the asexual industrial fungus Trichoderma reesei is a clonal derivative of the ascomycete Hypocrea jecorina.	The relationship of the important cellulase producing asexual fungus Trichoderma reesei to its putative teleomorphic (sexual) ancestor Hypocrea jecorina and other species of the Trichoderma sect. Longibrachiatum was studied by PCR-fingerprinting and sequence analyses of the nuclear ribosomal DNA region containing the internal transcribed spacers (ITS-1 and ITS-2) and the 5.8S rRNA gene. The differences in the corresponding ITS sequences allowed a grouping of anamorphic (asexual) species of Trichoderma sect. Longibrachiatum into Trichoderma longibrachiatum, Trichoderma pseudokoningii, and Trichoderma reesei. The sexual species Hypocrea schweinitzii and H. jecorina were also clearly separated from each other. H. jecorina and T. reesei exhibited identical sequences, suggesting close relatedness or even species identity. Intraspecific and interspecific variation in the PCR-fingerprinting patterns supported the differentiation of species based on ITS sequences, the grouping of the strains, and the assignment of these strains to individual species. The variations between T. reesei and H. jecorina were at the same order of magnitude as found between all strains of H. jecorina, but much lower than the observed interspecific variations. Identical ITS sequences and the high similarity of PCR-fingerprinting patterns indicate a very close relationship between T. reesei and H. jecorina, whereas differences of the ITS sequences and the PCR-fingerprinting patterns show a clear phylogenetic distance between T. reesei/H. jecorina and T. longibrachiatum. T. reesei is considered to be an asexual, clonal line derived from a population of the tropical ascomycete H. jecorina. 
8139573	19940401	Mol._Cell._Biol.	D003160 D016428 D013485 D013487 	Identification and characterization of a novel yeast gene: the YGP1 gene product is a highly glycosylated secreted protein that is synthesized in response to nutrient limitation.	Nutrient starvation in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae leads to a number of physiological changes that accompany entry into stationary phase. The expression of genes whose products play a role in stress adaptation is regulated in a manner that allows the cell to sense and respond to changing environmental conditions. We have identified a novel yeast gene, YGP1, that displays homology to the sporulation-specific SPS100 gene. The expression of YGP1 is regulated by nutrient availability. The gene is expressed at a basal level during "respiro-fermentative" (logarithmic) growth. When the glucose concentration in the medium falls below 1%, the YGP1 gene is derepressed and the gene product, gp37, is synthesized at levels up to 50-fold above the basal level. The glucose-sensing mechanism is independent of the SNF1 pathway and does not operate when cells are directly shifted to a low glucose concentration. The expression of YGP1 also responds to the depletion of nitrogen and phosphate, indicating a general response to nutrient deprivation. These results suggest that the YGP1 gene product may be involved in cellular adaptations prior to stationary phase and may be a useful marker protein for monitoring early events associated with the stress response. 
23526575	20130326	Springerplus	D016428 	Chitinolytic assay of indigenous Trichoderma isolates collected from different geographical locations of Chhattisgarh in Central India.	Chitin is the second most abundant polymer in nature after cellulose and plays a major role in fungal cell walls. As a producer of variety of chitinase enzymes Trichoderma has become an important means of biological control of fungal diseases. A simple and sensitive method based on the use of basal medium with colloidal chitin as sole carbon source supplemented with Bromo cresol purple (pH indicator dye) is proposed to evaluate large populations of Trichoderma for chitinase activity. The soluble substrate with pH indicator dye (Bromo cresol purple, BCP) for the assay of chitinase activity on solid media is sensitive, easy, reproducible semi-quantitative enzyme diffusion plate assay and economic option to determine chitinases. Colloidal chitin derived from Rhizoctonia cell wall and commercial chitin included as a carbon source in broth also allowed selection and comparison of chitinolytic and exochitinase activity in Trichoderma spectrophotometrically. Released N-acetyl-β--D-glucosamine (NAGA) ranged from 37.67 to 174.33 mg/ml and 37.67 to 327.67 mg/ml and p-nitrophenol (pNP) ranged from 0.17 to 35.78 X 10(-3) U/ml and 0.62 to 32.6 X 10(-3) U/ml) respectively with Rhizoctonia cell wall and commercial chitin derived colloidal chitin supplemented broth.  
9335052	19971023	Nat._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Plant resistance to fungal infection induced by nontoxic pokeweed antiviral protein mutants.	Pokeweed antiviral protein (PAP), a 29-kD protein isolated from Phytolacca americana inhibits translation by catalytically removing a specific adenine residue from the large rRNA of the 60S subunit of eukaryotic ribosomes. Transgenic plants expressing PAP are resistant to a broad spectrum of plant viruses. Nontoxic PAP mutants have been isolated by random mutagenesis and selection in yeast. One of these mutants, PAP-X, had a point mutation at the active-site (E176V) that abolished enzymatic activity, and another mutant, delta C25PAP, had a nonsense mutation near the C-terminus (W237stop) that deleted 25 C-terminal amino acids. Unlike the wild-type PAP, expression of neither mutant was toxic to transgenic plants. We show that both class I (basic) and class II (acidic) isoforms of pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins are overexpressed in transgenic plants expressing PAP and the nontoxic PAP mutants. Although PR-proteins are constitutively expressed, no increase in salicylic acid levels was detected. Homozygous progeny of transgenic plants expressing either PAP or the nontoxic PAP mutants displayed resistance to the fungal pathogen Rhizoctonia solani. These results show that expression of PAP or the nontoxic PAP mutants activates multiple plant defense pathways independently of salicylic acid and confers resistance to fungal infection. The C-terminal 25 amino acids of PAP, which are required for toxicity in vivo, are not critical for resistance to viral or fungal infection, indicating that toxicity of PAP can be separated from pathogen resistance. 
23919454	20130808	Biochem._J.	D016428 D013485 	A novel fluorescence assay and catalytic properties of Crh1 and Crh2 yeast cell wall transglycosylases.	The mechanical properties of fungal cell walls are largely determined by composition and mutual cross-linking of their macromolecular components. Previous work showed that the Crh proteins are required for the formation of cross-links between chitin and glucan at the Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell wall. In the present study, the proteins encoded by CRH1 and CRH2 were heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris and a sensitive fluorescence in vitro soluble assay was devised for determination of their transglycosylating activities. Both proteins act as chitin transglycosylases; they use soluble chitin derivatives, such as carboxymethyl chitin, glycol-chitin and/or N-acetyl chito-oligosaccharides of DP (degree of polymerization)≥5 as the oligoglycosyl donors, and oligosaccharides derived from chitin, β-(1,3)-glucan (laminarin) and β-(1,6)-glucan (pustulan), fluorescently labelled with sulforhodamine or FITC as acceptors. The minimal number of intact hexopyranose units required by Crh1 and/or Crh2 in the molecule of the acceptor oligosaccharide was two and the effectivity of the acceptor increased with the increasing length of its oligosaccharide chain. Products of the transglycosylation reactions were hybrid molecules composed of the acceptor and portions of carboxymethyl chitin attached to its non-reducing end. Both proteins exhibited a weak chitinolytic activity in different assays whereby the ratio of endo- compared with exo-chitinase activity was approximately 4-fold higher in Crh1 than in Crh2. The pH optimum of both enzymes was 3.5 and the optimum temperature was 37°C. The results obtained in vitro with different fluorescently labelled oligosaccharides as artificial chitin acceptors corroborated well with those observed in vivo.  
6195212	19831201	J._Histochem._Cytochem.	D016428 D013485 	Ultrastructural localization of cellulase in Trichoderma reesei using immunocytochemistry and enzyme cytochemistry.	Two components of the cellulase complex (E.C. 3.2.1.4) of the fungus Trichoderma reesei were localized at the ultrastructural level. Immunocytochemistry and enzyme cytochemistry demonstrated that cellobiohydrolase and beta-1,4 glucanase were localized within cisternae of endoplasmic reticulum and within membrane complexes of cellulose-grown hyphae. Both enzymes were also present in the culture medium. Glucose-grown control hyphae lacked enzyme-specific staining, and no enzyme activity was detected in the growth medium. 
6832656	19830101	Folia_Microbiol._(Praha)	D003160 D016428 	Effect of Myrothecium sp. cellulase on different types of cellulose and cellulosic materials.	Three types of cellulase preparations were applied to different types of cellulose and cellulosic materials. The action of these types of cellulase on cellulose powder was increased with the increase of enzyme concentration. Both carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) and sodium carboxymethyl cellulose (Na-CMC) released high amounts of reducing sugar as affected by cellulase application. Different types of paper pulp were moderately hydrolyzed, while agricultural wastes were slightly hydrolyzed. Vegetable and fruits cellulose were equally hydrolyzed but at low rate. Pretreatment of cellulose or cellulosic materials by grinding or by swelling with phosphoric acid gave rise to increased hydrolysis by the enzyme. Cellobiose was detected chromatographically as an intermediate product of hydrolysis of both cellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose with glucose. 
3275644	19880105	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013487 	Yeast LEU4 encodes mitochondrial and nonmitochondrial forms of alpha-isopropylmalate synthase.	The LEU4 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the major structural gene involved in the production of alpha-isopropylmalate synthase. It was recently proposed that LEU4 should be capable of encoding two forms of alpha-isopropylmalate synthase, based mainly on the observation that two of four major transcription start sites are located downstream from the ATG at the beginning of the LEU4 open reading frame (Beltzer, J. P., Chang, L. L., Hinkkanen, A. E., and Kohlhaw, G. B. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 5160-5167). The two forms with molecular weights of 68,000 and 65,000, respectively, would differ only in the N-terminal region, and only the larger of the two forms would be imported into the mitochondria. We have now constructed LEU4'-'lacZ translational fusion plasmids that contain either a normal LEU4' portion (expected to express both the long and the short forms of the fusion protein) or a modified LEU4' portion in which productive translation is possible only from the second in-frame AUG (expected to express only the short form of the fusion protein). beta-Galactosidase measurements and immunoblotting of crude mitochondrial and cytoplasmic fractions of yeast cells transformed with the fusion plasmids indicate that two forms of hybrid protein are produced and that only the larger form is targeted to the mitochondria. The distinguishing feature of the targeting sequence appears to be its ability to form an 18-residue long amphiphilic helix. Expression of the native short form of LEU4-encoded alpha-isopropylmalate synthase behind a strong yeast promoter has enabled us to show that the short form is functional in leucine biosynthesis, is inhibited by leucine with an apparent inhibitor constant of approximately 0.4 mM, and exists as a cytoplasmic dimer. 
9395316	19971212	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	In vitro conversion of the carbohydrate moiety of fungal glycoproteins to mammalian-type oligosaccharides--evidence for N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase-I-accepting glycans from Trichoderma reesei.	To investigate the potential of filamentous fungi to synthesize N-glycans that are convertible to a mammalian type, in vitro glycosylation assays were performed. Recombinant human N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I, human beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase and rat alpha-2,6-sialyltransferase were successively used to mimic part of the mammalian glycosylation synthesis pathway. High-mannose carbohydrates on Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase I were converted to a hybrid mammalian-type structure. Successful modification varied markedly with the strain of T. reesei used to produce cellobiohydrolase I. In vitro pretreatment of fungal glycoproteins with Aspergillus saitoi alpha-1,2-mannosidase improved subsequent hybrid formation. It was, however, not possible to trim all fungal oligosaccharides to an acceptor substrate for mammalian glycosyltransferases. With T. reesei RUTC 30, capping glucose residues and phosphate groups were shown to be responsible for this lack of trimming. N-glycan processing in T. reesei apparently involves different steps, including alpha-1,2-mannosidase trimmings, and thus resembles the first mammalian glycosylation processes. The alpha-1,2-mannosidase trimming steps can be exploited for further in vitro and/or in vivo synthesis of complex oligosaccharides on (heterologous) glycoproteins from filamentous fungi. 
17558545	20070615	Antonie_Van_Leeuwenhoek	D016428 	Multiple dextranases from the yeast Lipomyces starkeyi.	The soil yeast Lipomyces starkeyi (NCYC 1436) secretes dextranase activity into the growth medium. Resolution of a dextranase-active protein fraction by SDS-PAGE produced three protein bands, of 66 kDa, 68 kDa and 78 kDa, and isoelectric focusing of the same fraction resulted in seven protein bands, of pIs 3.50, 3.85, 4.20, 4.80, 4.85, 5.00 and 5.30. Dextranase activity was demonstrated for all the isoelectric forms, and for the 78 kDa species in the presence of SDS. Amino acid compositions of the 66 kDa, 68 kDa and 78 kDa protein bands were determined, and the N-termini of the 66 kDa and 78 kDa protein bands were sequenced: the first two amino acids at the N-terminus of each protein were alanine and valine, respectively; an alanine-valine pair is seen early in the N-terminal coding sequences of the dextranases and the isopullulanase produced by the phylogenetically disparate organisms contributing to glycosyl hydrolase family 49. 
12371618	20021010	Acta._Biol._Hung.	D016428 D013485 	Selection of strain and optimization of mutanase production in submerged cultures of Trichoderma harzianum.	Nineteen fungal strains belonging to different genera were tested for extracellular mutanase production in shaken flasks. The optimal enzymatic activity was achieved by Trichoderma harzianum F-470, a strain for which the mutanase productivity has not yet been published. Some of factors affecting the enzyme production in shaken flasks and aerated fermenter cultures have been standardized. Mandels mineral medium with initial pH 5.3, containing 0.25% mutan and inoculated with 10% of the 48-h mycelium, was the best for enzyme production. A slight mutanolytic activity was also found when sucrose, raffinose, lactose and melibiose were carbon sources. Application of optimized medium and cultural conditions, as well as use of a fermenter with automatic pH control set at pH 6.0 enabled to obtain a high mutanase yield (0.33 U/ml, 2.5 U/mg protein) in a short time (2-3 days). The enzyme in crude state was stable over a pH range of 4.5-6.0, and at temperatures up to 35 degrees C; its maximum activity was at 40 degrees C and at pH 5.5. 
9037205	19970203	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Regulation of maltose utilization in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by genes of the RAS/protein kinase A pathway.	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae maltose utilization requires a functional MAL locus, each composed of three genes: MALR (gene 3) encoding a regulatory protein, MALT (gene 1) encoding maltose permease and MALS (gene 2) encoding maltase. We show that constitutive activation of the RAS/protein kinase A pathway severely reduces growth of MAL1 strains on maltose. This may be a consequence of reduction in MALT mRNA, reduced Vmax and increased catabolite inactivation of the MALT-encoded maltose transporter in the MAL1 strain. Mutations in the GGS1/TPS1 gene, which restricts glucose influx and possibly affects signalling, relieve carbon catabolite repression on both maltase and maltose permease and reduce maltose permease inactivation. 
9501149	19980328	Plant_Physiol.	D016428 	N-Acylethanolamines: formation and molecular composition of a new class of plant lipids 	Recently, the biosynthesis of an unusual membrane phospholipid, N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine (NAPE), was found to increase in elicitor-treated tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) cells (K.D. Chapman, A. Conyers-Hackson, R.A. Moreau, S. Tripathy [1995] Physiol Plant 95: 120-126). Here we report that before induction of NAPE biosynthesis, N-acylethanolamine (NAE) is released from NAPE in cultured tobacco cells 10 min after treatment with the fungal elicitor xylanase. In radiolabeling experiments [14C]NAE (labeled on the ethanolamine carbons) increased approximately 6-fold in the culture medium, whereas [14C]NAPE associated with cells decreased approximately 5-fold. Two predominant NAE molecular species, N-lauroylethanolamine and N-myristoylethanolamine, were specifically identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in lipids extracted from culture medium, and both increased in concentration after elicitor treatment. NAEs were found to accumulate extracellularly only. A microsomal phospholipase D activity was discovered that formed NAE from NAPE; its activity in vitro was stimulated about 20-fold by mastoparan, suggesting that NAPE hydrolysis is highly regulated, perhaps by G-proteins. Furthermore, an NAE amidohydrolase activity that catalyzed the hydrolysis of NAE in vitro was detected in homogenates of tobacco cells. Collectively, these results characterize structurally a new class of plant lipids and identify the enzymatic machinery involved in its formation and inactivation in elicitor-treated tobacco cells. Recent evidence indicating a signaling role for NAPE metabolism in mammalian cells (H.H.O. Schmid, P.C. Schmid, V. Natarajan [1996] Chem Phys Lipids 80: 133-142) raises the possibility that a similar mechanism may operate in plant cells. 
16802152	20060628	Appl._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 	Optimization of multienzyme production by two mixed strains in solid-state fermentation.	F(3) and F(4) strains of Aspergillus niger were screened from five strains of fungi to produce multienzyme preparations (containing cellulase, hemicellulase, glucoamylase, pectinase, and acidic proteinase) as dietary supplementation. Enzyme activities indicated that 1:4 (F(3) to F(4)) was the optimum mixture proportion, and 0.3% (W/W) was the preferable pitching rate. In bran mash containing 54.5% (W/W) water, F(3) and F(4) could produce the supplementation better when cultured 30 to 36 h at 30 degrees C. Monofactorial and orthogonal experiments were performed to optimize media. Results of the variance and range analysis showed that the optimum medium contained 80 g of bran, 20 g of cottonseed powder, 1 g of (NH(4))(2)SO(4), and 0.1 g of KH(2)PO(4). When F(3) and F(4 )strains were cultured in the optimum medium containing 54.5% (W/W) water, the activity of cellulase, hemicellulase, glucoamylase, pectinase, and acidic proteinase reached 996; 15,863; 13,378; 7,621; and 5,583 U/g, respectively. 
22780886	20120712	FEMS_Yeast_Res.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Identification of differentially expressed genes associated with changes in the morphology of  Pichia fermentans on apple and peach fruit.	Pichia fermentans (strain DISAABA 726) is an effective biocontrol agent against Monilinia fructicola and Botrytis cinerea when inoculated in artificially wounded apple fruit but is an aggressive pathogen when inoculated on wounded peach fruit, causing severe fruit decay. Pichia fermentans grows as budding yeast on apple tissue and exhibits pseudohyphal growth on peach tissue, suggesting that dimorphism may be associated with pathogenicity. Two complementary suppressive subtractive hybridization (SSH) strategies, that is, rapid subtraction hybridization (RaSH) and PCR-based subtraction, were performed to identify genes differentially expressed by P. fermentans after 24-h growth on apple vs. peach fruit. Gene products that were more highly expressed on peach than on apple tissue, or vice versa, were sequenced and compared with available yeast genome sequence databases. Several of the genes more highly expressed, when P. fermentans was grown on peach, were related to stress response, glycolysis, amino acid metabolism, and alcoholic fermentation but surprisingly not to cell wall degrading enzymes such as pectinases or cellulases. The dual activity of P. fermentans as both a biocontrol agent and a pathogen emphasizes the need for a thorough risk analysis of potential antagonists to avoid unpredictable results that could negatively impact the safe use of postharvest biocontrol strategies. 
15862318	20050503	FEBS_Lett.	D016428 	cda1+, encoding chitin deacetylase is required for proper spore formation in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	In Schizosaccharomyces pombe, a major role of chitin is to build up a complete spore. Here, we analyzed the cda1(+) gene (SPAC19G12.03), which encodes a protein homologous to chitin deacetylases, to know whether it is required for spore formation in S. pombe. The homothallic Deltacda1 strain constructed by homologous recombination was found to form a little amount of abnormal spores that contained one, two, or three asci, similar to (but not as strong as) the phenotype observed in a deletion mutant of chs1 encoding chitin synthase 1. This phenotype is reversed by expression of S. cerevisiae chitin deacetylase CDA1 or CDA2, suggesting that cda1 encodes a chitin deacetylase. To support the role of Cda1 in sporulation, the timing of expression of cda1(+) mRNA increased during sporulation process. We also found that the Cda1 protein self-associated when its binding was tested both by two-hybrid system and immunoprecipitation. Thus, these data indicated that cda1(+) is required for proper spore formation in S. pombe. 
24344125	20131218	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D052061 D013485 	Evidence for transceptor function of cellodextrin transporters in Neurospora crassa.	Neurospora crassa colonizes burnt grasslands and metabolizes both cellulose and hemicellulose from plant cell walls. When switched from a favored carbon source to cellulose, N. crassa dramatically up-regulates expression and secretion of genes encoding lignocellulolytic enzymes. However, the means by which N. crassa and other filamentous fungi sense the presence of cellulose in the environment remains unclear. Previously, we have shown that a N. crassa mutant carrying deletions of three β-glucosidase enzymes (Δ3βG) lacks β-glucosidase activity, but efficiently induces cellulase gene expression and cellulolytic activity in the presence of cellobiose as the sole carbon source. These observations indicate that cellobiose, or a modified version of cellobiose, functions as an inducer of lignocellulolytic gene expression and activity in N. crassa. Here, we show that in N. crassa, two cellodextrin transporters, CDT-1 and CDT-2, contribute to cellulose sensing. A N. crassa mutant carrying deletions for both transporters is unable to induce cellulase gene expression in response to crystalline cellulose. Furthermore, a mutant lacking genes encoding both the β-glucosidase enzymes and cellodextrin transporters (Δ3βGΔ2T) does not induce cellulase gene expression in response to cellobiose. Point mutations that severely reduce cellobiose transport by either CDT-1 or CDT-2 when expressed individually do not greatly impact cellobiose induction of cellulase gene expression. These data suggest that the N. crassa cellodextrin transporters act as "transceptors" with dual functions - cellodextrin transport and receptor signaling that results in downstream activation of cellulolytic gene expression. Similar mechanisms of transceptor activity likely occur in related ascomycetes used for industrial cellulase production.  
7966300	19941104	J._Mol._Biol.	D016428 D013485 	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic studies of thermostable xylanase crystals isolated from Paecilomyces varioti.	A highly thermostable xylanase isolated from the thermophilic fungus Paecilomyces varioti has been crystallized by the vapour diffusion method. The isolation of this enzyme by crystallization directly from the culture filtrate projects this fungus as an important source for large-scale production of pure xylanase. The crystals belong to orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2(1) with the unit cell dimensions a = 38.48 A, b = 53.87 A and c = 90.23 A. Four molecules occupy a volume of 187,039.4 A3 along with 34% of solvent. The data collected with an area detector to the resolution of 2.7 A were used to calculate the unit cell parameters and Matthews' constant. The optical behaviour of the crystal was studied at different temperatures to understand its thermal stability. 
4524641	19740401	Proc._Natl._Acad._Sci._U.S.A.	D016428 	Sexual morphogenesis in Achlya: ultrastructural basis for the hormonal induction of antheridial hyphae.	Male strains of the water mold Achlya ambisexualis produce antheridial hyphae in response to the steroid hormone antheridiol. The antheridial hypha is postulated to be initiated through a localized wall softening with the enzyme cellulase. Freeze-etch studies of hormone-treated hyphae were conducted to determine if aggregates of vesicles are induced at the location of new antheridial hyphae. Localized aggregates of vesicles were found in conjunction with areas of wall thinning. These data suggest that the processes of vesiculation and secretion provide a mechanism for concentration of cellulase at the site of initiation of antheridial hyphae. 
749472	19780101	Acta_Biol._Med._Ger.	D016428 	The influence of charged matrix surfaces on the thermostabilizing effect of calcium ions on immobilized fungal alpha-amylase.	The stabilizing effect of calcium ions on fungal alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) immobilized on a polystyrene anion exchanger (P+ amylase) was investigated and compared to the behaviour of soluble amylase. Moreover, gamma-(1,4-benzoquinone-2-yl)-aminopropyl silica-amylase (Si(n) amylase) as a conjugate with weakly basic amino groups and gamma-succinamidopropyl silica amylase (Si- amylase) as a conjugate with free carboxyl groups were applied for comparison. Depending on the calcium ion concentration the immobilized amylases showed a lower thermal stability than the soluble enzyme. The reduced stability was attributed to matrix effects in the microenvironment of the immobilized amylases and the calcium ion concentration in the carrier phase, which was changed in comparison with the external solution. Contrary to the non-measurable matrix effects in the microenvironment, altered calcium ion concentrations in the carrier phase of the polystyrene anion exchanger (P+) and gamma-succinamidopropyl silica (Si-) could be detected. With increasing calcium ion concentration a greater decrease of activity was observed for the soluble amylase than for the immobilized enzymes. The thermal stability of soluble amylase and P+ amylase was studied in dependence on pH. In the acidic pH-range P+ amylase indicated a higher thermal stability than the soluble enzyme in the presence of Ca2+ as well as in the absence of Ca2+. Contrary to soluble amylase the stabilizing effect of calcium ions on P+ amylase begins already at pH 3.5. Kinetic investigations for thermal inactivation were performed on soluble amylase and P+ amylase in the presence and absence of Ca2+ in the temperature range between 44--60 degrees C. Thermal inactivation proceeded by first order reactions. The inactivation rate constants kin served as a measure of thermal stability for discussing the stabilizing effect by Ca2+ depending on the temperature. The activation energies of inactivation EA were determined from the Arrhenius-plot of the inactivation rate constants. 
1447290	19921201	J._Cell_Biol.	D016428 D013485 D013487 	Morphological analysis of protein transport from the ER to Golgi membranes in digitonin-permeabilized cells: role of the P58 containing compartment.	The glycoside digitonin was used to selectively permeabilize the plasma membrane exposing functionally and morphologically intact ER and Golgi compartments. Permeabilized cells efficiently transported vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein (VSV-G) through sealed, membrane-bound compartments in an ATP and cytosol dependent fashion. Transport was vectorial. VSV-G protein was first transported to punctate structures which colocalized with p58 (a putative marker for peripheral punctate pre-Golgi intermediates and the cis-Golgi network) before delivery to the medial Golgi compartments containing alpha-1,2-mannosidase II and processing of VSV-G to endoglycosidase H resistant forms. Exit from the ER was inhibited by an antibody recognizing the carboxyl-terminus of VSV-G. In contrast, VSV-G protein colocalized with p58 in the absence of Ca2+ or the presence of an antibody which inhibits the transport component NSF (SEC18). These studies demonstrate that digitonin permeabilized cells can be used to efficiently reconstitute the early secretory pathway in vitro, allowing a direct comparison of the morphological and biochemical events involved in vesicular tafficking, and identifying a key role for the p58 containing compartment in ER to Golgi transport. 
18219522	20080126	Curr._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Yeasts and yeast-like fungi associated with tree bark: diversity and identification of yeasts producing extracellular endoxylanases.	A total of 239 yeast strains was isolated from 52 tree bark samples of the Medaram and Srisailam forest areas of Andhra Pradesh, India. Based on analysis of D1/D2 domain sequence of 26S rRNA gene, 114 strains were identified as ascomycetous; 107 strains were identified as basidiomycetous yeasts; and 18 strains were identified as yeast-like fungi. Among the ascomycetous yeasts, 51% were identified as members of the genus Pichia, and the remaining 49% included species belonging to the genera Clavispora, Debaryomyces, Kluyveromyces, Hanseniaspora, Issatchenkia, Lodderomyces, Kodamaea, Metschnikowia, and Torulaspora. The predominant genera in the basidiomycetous yeasts were Cryptococcus (48.6%), Rhodotorula (29%), and Rhodosporidium (12.1%). The yeast-like fungi were represented by Aureobasidium pullulans (6.7%) and Lecythophora hoffmanii (0.8%). Of the 239 yeast strains tested for Xylanase, only five strains of Aureobasidium sp. produced xylanase on xylan-agar medium. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight analysis and N-terminal amino-acid sequence of the xylanase of isolate YS67 showed high similarity with endo-1-4-beta-xylanase (EC 3.2.1.8) of Aureobasidium pullulans var. melanigenum. 
9264030	19970630	Mol._Cells	D016428 	Purification and antifungal activity of a basic 34 kDa beta-1,3-glucanase from soybean hypocotyls inoculated with Phytophthora sojae f. sp. glycines.	Inoculation of soybean (Glycine max L. cv. Jangyup) hypocotyls with Phytophthora sojae f. sp. glycines results in a marked accumulation of some pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins. A basic beta-1,3-glucanase (34 kDa) was purified from soybean hypocotyls infected by an incompatible race of P. sojae f. sp. glycines using CM-cellulose cation exchange chromatography and Bio-gel P-60 gel filtration. The purified soybean beta-1,3-glucanase cross-reacted with polyclonal antibody raised against a tomato beta-1,3-glucanase. The activity of beta-1,3-glucanase was much higher in the infected soybean hypocotyls than the healthy ones. The beta-1, 3-glucanase purified from soybean inhibited spore germination and hyphal growth of the chitin-negative fungus P. sojae f. sp. glycines, but did not show any antifungal activity against the chitin-containing fungi Alternaria mali, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, and Magnaporthe grisea. 
15366516	20040916	Ann_Ig	D016428 D013485 	A recombinant yeast strain as a short term bioassay to assess estrogen-like activity of xenobiotics.	The study investigated the responsiveness of a recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast strain to screen estrogen-like chemicals in order to use it as a first level short-term bioassay for environmental preventive medicine purposes. We used the yeast strain RMY326 ER-ERE, containing the human estrogen receptor alpha and a reporter gene lacZ encoding the enzyme b-galactosidase. We tested the natural steroid hormone 17beta-estradiol, diethylstilbestrol, colchicine, some phytoestrogens and pesticides, and organochlorine insecticides. The relative inductive efficiency (RIE) and EC50 values confirmed the sensitivity and specificity of the yeast strain. A statistically significant reproducibility of results in repeated experiments was assessed. 
418897	19780130	C.R._Hebd._Seances_Acad._Sci.,_Ser._D,_Sci._Nat.	D004740 D016428 	[Detection and distribution of "rutinase+, an enzyme hydrolyzin; rutoside].	125 species were investigated for rutinase. A high enzyme activity was found only in a few genera: Fagopyrum, Rhamnus, Berchemia, Sophora, Datisca and Danae. Lower activity was detected in several Lichens (Parmeliaceae) and diverse plants but is lacking in some specimens. In a number of species containing 3- or 7-rutinosides, no enzyme able to hydrolyse the latter seems to be present. 
11472949	20010727	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Induction of a mitosis delay and cell lysis by high-level secretion of mouse alpha-amylase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Some foreign proteins are produced in yeast in a cell cycle-dependent manner, but the cause of the cell cycle dependency is unknown. In this study, we found that Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells secreting high levels of mouse alpha-amylase have elongated buds and are delayed in cell cycle completion in mitosis. The delayed cell mitosis suggests that critical events during exit from mitosis might be disturbed. We found that the activities of PP2A (protein phosphatase 2A) and MPF (maturation-promoting factor) were reduced in alpha-amylase-oversecreting cells and that these cells showed a reduced level of assembly checkpoint protein Cdc55, compared to the accumulation in wild-type cells. MPF inactivation is due to inhibitory phosphorylation on Cdc28, as a cdc28 mutant which lacks an inhibitory phosphorylation site on Cdc28 prevents MPF inactivation and prevents the defective bud morphology induced by overproduction of alpha-amylase. Our data also suggest that high levels of alpha-amylase may downregulate PPH22, leading to cell lysis. In conclusion, overproduction of heterologous alpha-amylase in S. cerevisiae results in a negative regulation of PP2A, which causes mitotic delay and leads to cell lysis. 
9914479	19990123	Eur._J._Biochem.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Endoglucanase 28 (Cel12A), a new Phanerochaete chrysosporium cellulase.	A 28-kDa endoglucanase was isolated from the culture filtrate of Phanerochaete chrysosporium strain K3 and named EG 28. It degrades carboxymethylated cellulose and amorphous cellulose, and to a lesser degree xylan and mannan but not microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel). EG 28 is unusual among cellulases from aerobic fungi, in that it appears to lack a cellulose-binding domain and does not bind to crystalline cellulose. The enzyme is efficient at releasing short fibres from filter paper and mechanical pulp, and acts synergistically with cellobiohydrolases. Its mode of degrading filter paper appears to be different to that of endoglucanase I from Trichoderma reesei. Furthermore, EG 28 releases colour from stained cellulose beads faster than any other enzyme tested. Peptide mapping suggests that it is not a fragment of another known endoglucanases from P. chrysosporium and peptide sequences indicate that it belongs to family 12 of the glycosyl hydrolases. EG 28 is glycosylated. The biological function of the enzyme is discussed, and it is hypothesized that it is homologous to EG III in Trichoderma reesei and the role of the enzyme is to make the cellulose in wood more accessible to other cellulases. 
19141036	20090115	Lett._Appl._Microbiol.	D016428 	Fungi from koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) faeces exhibit a broad range of enzyme activities against recalcitrant substrates.	Identification of fungi isolated from koala faeces and screening for their enzyme activities of biotechnological interest. Thirty-seven fungal strains were isolated from koala faeces and identified by the amplification and direct sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the ribosomal DNA. The fungi were screened for selected enzyme activities using agar plates containing a single substrate for each target class of enzyme. For xylanase, endoglucanase, ligninase (ligninolytic phenoloxidase) and protease over two-thirds of the isolates produced a clearing halo at 25 degrees C, indicating the secretion of active enzyme by the fungus, and one-third produced a halo indicating amylase, mannanase and tannase activity. Some isolates were also able to degrade crystalline cellulose and others displayed lipase activity. Many of the fungal isolates also produced active enzymes at 15 degrees C and some at 39 degrees C. Koala faeces, consisting of highly lignified fibre, undigested cellulose and phenolics, are a novel source of fungi with high and diverse enzyme activities capable of breaking down recalcitrant substrates. To our knowledge, this is the first time fungi from koala faeces have been identified using ITS sequencing and screened for their enzyme activities. 
11328490	20010501	J._Pept._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Hypogin, a novel antifungal peptide from peanuts with sequence similarity to peanut allergen.	A protein designated hypogin, with a prominent suppressive action on the growth of the fungi Mycosphaerella arachidicola, Fusarium oxysporum and Coprinus comatus, was isolated from seeds of the peanut Arachis hypogaea. The protein inhibited human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reverse transcriptase and enzymes associated with HIV infection including alpha-glucosidase and beta-glucosidase. The proliferative response of mouse splenocytes was attenuated in the presence of the protein. The protein exhibited a molecular mass of 7.2 kDa in tricine gel electrophoresis and gel filtration on Superdex 75 and an N-terminal sequence resembling peanut allergen Ara H1. The isolation procedure involved affinity chromatography on Affi-gel blue gel and ion-exchange chromatography on CM-Sepharose. The protein was adsorbed in both chromatographic media. 
15948852	20050614	New_Phytol.	D016428 D013485 	Activity profiling of ectomycorrhiza communities in two forest soils using multiple enzymatic tests.	Data on the diversity and distribution of enzyme activities in native ectomycorrhizal (ECM) communities are inadequate. A microplate multiple enzymatic test was developed which makes it possible to measure eight enzyme activities on 14 individual, excised ECM root tips. Hydrolytic and oxidative enzymes are involved in the decomposition of lignocellulose, chitin and phosphorus-containing organic compounds. This test system was used to describe the functional diversity of ECM communities in two forest sites. This set of tests proved to be accurate and sensitive enough to reveal a high diversity of activity profiles, depending on the fungal symbiont and the soil horizon. Ectomycorrhizas can be classified into specialists and generalists, and appear to complement each other in the same horizon to collectively perform all eight activities studied. By including a higher number of different assays for more detailed analyses, ECM activity profiling will provide a valuable tool for studying the functional diversity of ECM communities. 
17496125	20070515	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	Two novel, putatively cell wall-associated and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored alpha-glucanotransferase enzymes of Aspergillus niger.	In the genome sequence of Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88, three genes were identified with high similarity to fungal alpha-amylases. The protein sequences derived from these genes were different in two ways from all described fungal alpha-amylases: they were predicted to be glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchored, and some highly conserved amino acids of enzymes in the alpha-amylase family were absent. We expressed two of these enzymes in a suitable A. niger strain and characterized the purified proteins. Both enzymes showed transglycosylation activity on donor substrates with alpha-(1,4)-glycosidic bonds and at least five anhydroglucose units. The enzymes, designated AgtA and AgtB, produced new alpha-(1,4)-glycosidic bonds and therefore belong to the group of the 4-alpha-glucanotransferases (EC 2.4.1.25). Their reaction products reached a degree of polymerization of at least 30. Maltose and larger maltooligosaccharides were the most efficient acceptor substrates, although AgtA also used small nigerooligosaccharides containing alpha-(1,3)-glycosidic bonds as acceptor substrate. An agtA knockout of A. niger showed an increased susceptibility towards the cell wall-disrupting compound calcofluor white, indicating a cell wall integrity defect in this strain. Homologues of AgtA and AgtB are present in other fungal species with alpha-glucans in their cell walls, but not in yeast species lacking cell wall alpha-glucan. Possible roles for these enzymes in the synthesis and/or maintenance of the fungal cell wall are discussed. 
22451079	20120328	Bioprocess_Biosyst_Eng	D016428 	Utilization of Jatropha deoiled seed cake for production of cellulases under solid-state fermentation.	Toxic waste generated by Jatropha seed cake after utilization of biodiesel on one hand has stimulated the need to develop new technologies to treat the waste and on the other, forced us to reevaluate the efficient utilization of its nutritive potential for production of various high-value compounds and its conversion to non-toxic forms which could be used as animal feed stock. In this study, Jatropha seed cake was used for production of cellulases by new isolate of Thermoascus aurantiacus under solid-state fermentation. The interaction of nitrogen source concentration, moisture ratio, initial pH of the medium and inoculum size was investigated and modelled using response surface methodology (RSM) using Box-Behnken Design (BBD). Under optimized conditions endo-β-1,4-glucanase, β-glucosidase and filter paper activities were found to be 124.44, 28.86, 4.87 U/g of substrate, respectively. Characterization of endo-β-1,4-glucanase, β-glucosidase was done after partial purification by ammonium sulfate fractionation followed by desalting. The endo-β-1,4-glucanase and β-glucosidase showed maximum activity at 70 °C and pH 4. Saccharification studies performed with different lignocellulosic substrates showed that sugar cane bagasse was most susceptible to enzymatic hydrolysis. The study suggests that Jatropha seed cake can be used as a viable nutrient source for cellulase production without any pretreatment under solid-state fermentation by T. aurantiacus. 
19542306	20090623	Eukaryotic_Cell	D016428 D013485 	{beta}-glucanase Eng2 is required for ascus wall endolysis after sporulation in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	Meiosis is the developmental program by which sexually reproducing diploid organisms generate haploid gametes. In yeast, meiosis is followed by spore morphogenesis. When Schizosaccharomyces pombe diploid cells undergo meiosis, they differentiate into asci containing four haploid ascospores that are highly resistant to environmental stress. The formation of the ascospore wall requires the activity of several enzymes involved in the biosynthesis and modification of its components, such as alpha- and beta-glucan synthases. Once the spores are completely mature, the wall of the ascus undergoes an endolytic process that results in the release of ascospores from the ascus, allowing their dispersal into the environment. This process requires the activity of the endo-alpha-1,3-glucanase Agn2. Here, we focus on the characterization of the endo-beta-1,3-glucanase Eng2, which is also required for ascospore release from the ascus. Although Eng2 is present during the mitotic cycle, the protein accumulates after meiosis II. The expression of eng2(+) is required for the efficient release of ascospores, as shown by placing eng2(+) under the control of a repressible promoter. Furthermore, a point mutation that destroys the catalytic activity of the protein results in a phenotype similar to that of the mutant strain. Finally, we demonstrate that exogenous addition of purified Eng2 releases the ascospores from asci generated by an eng2Delta mutant. We propose that Eng2 would act together with Agn2 to completely hydrolyze the ascus wall, thereby assisting in the release of ascospores in S. pombe. 
24688660	20140402	Comput_Struct_Biotechnol_J	D016428 D016454 	A structural overview of GH61 proteins - fungal cellulose degrading polysaccharide monooxygenases.	Recent years have witnessed a spurt of activities in the elucidation of the molecular function of a class of proteins with great potential in biomass degradation. GH61 proteins are of fungal origin and were originally classified in family 61 of the glycoside hydrolases. From the beginning they were strongly suspected to be involved in cellulose degradation because of their expression profiles, despite very low detectable endoglucanase activities. A major breakthrough came from structure determination of the first members, establishing the presence of a divalent metal binding site and a similarity to bacterial proteins involved in chitin degradation. A second breakthrough came from the identification of cellulase boosting activity dependent on the integrity of the metal binding site. Finally very recently GH61 proteins were demonstrated to oxidatively cleave crystalline cellulose in a Cu and reductant dependant manner. This mini-review in particular focuses on the contribution that structure elucidation has made in the understanding of GH61 molecular function and reviews the currently known structures and the challenges remaining ahead for exploiting this new class of enzymes to the full.  
7937705	19940601	Protein_Eng.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Structural similarities in glucoamylase by hydrophobic cluster analysis.	The model of the catalytic domain of Aspergillus awamori var. X100 glucoamylase was related to 14 other glucoamylase protein sequences belonging to five subfamilies. Structural features of the different sequences were revealed by multisequence alignment following hydrophobic cluster analysis. The alignment agreed with the hydrophobic microdomains, normally conserved throughout evolution, evaluated from the 3-D model. Saccharomyces and Clostridium glucoamylases lack the alpha-helix exterior to the catalytic domain. A different catalytic base was found in the Saccharomyces glucoamylase subfamily. The starch binding domain of fungal glucoamylases has identical structural features and substrate interacting residues as the C-terminal domain of models of Bacillus circulans cyclodextrin glucosyltransferases. Three putative N-glycosylation sites were found in the same turns in glucoamylases of different subfamilies. O-Glycosylation is present at different levels in the catalytic domain and in the linker between the catalytic and starch binding domains. 
16233170	20051020	J._Biosci._Bioeng.	D016428 	Endophytes as producers of xylanase.	One hundred and sixty-nine endophytic fungi and 81 endophytic bacteria were isolated from 14 plants in total. Among them, 155 fungi (91.7%) and 52 bacteria (64%) were found to produce xylanase. The inside part of plants is a novel and good source for isolating xylanase producers in comparison with soil. 
20652358	20100724	J._Ind._Microbiol._Biotechnol.	D016428 D013485 	Characterization of glycolytic activities from non-Saccharomyces yeasts isolated from Bobal musts.	A large number of non-Saccharomyces yeasts were isolated from grapes of Bobal variety and identified according to their physiological and molecular characteristics. The yeasts were tested to determine the presence of β-glucosidase, β-xylosidase, α-arabinosidase, and α-rhamnosidase activities and five isolates were selected. All enzymatic activities were induced by the presence of glycosides as the only carbon source in the medium, which seems to be a characteristic of the yeast isolate, and were characterized according to different parameters of enological interest. 
21505251	20110421	Acta_Crystallogr._Sect._F_Struct._Biol._Cryst._Commun.	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Crystallization and diffraction analysis of β-N-acetylhexosaminidase from Aspergillus oryzae.	Fungal β-N-acetylhexosaminidases are enzymes that are used in the chemoenzymatic synthesis of biologically interesting oligosaccharides. The enzyme from Aspergillus oryzae was produced and purified from its natural source and crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. Diffraction data from two crystal forms (primitive monoclinic and primitive tetragonal) were collected to resolutions of 3.2 and 2.4 Å, respectively. Electrophoretic and quantitative N-terminal protein-sequencing analyses confirmed that the crystals are formed by a complete biologically active enzyme consisting of a glycosylated catalytic unit and a noncovalently attached propeptide. 
14999404	20040305	Cell._Mol._Life_Sci.	D016428 D016454 	Antifungal proteins: targets, mechanisms and prospective applications.	All organisms have evolved several defence systems in order to protect themselves against bacteria, fungi and viruses. Higher organisms have developed a complex network of humoral and cellular responses, called adaptive immunity. A second defence system, innate immunity, was discovered in the early 1980s, consisting of small cationic peptides with a broad antimicrobial spectrum. These proteins act immediately at sites of infection or inflammation. The production of proteins with antimicrobial activity was not limited to higher organisms but was also found in insects, plants and microorganisms. During the last 2 decades a broad range of proteins with very different structural features have been isolated and characterised from differing organisms ranging from bacteria to human beings. Over 500 cationic membrane-acting proteins with antimicrobial and antifungal activities have been identified to date. Apart from these proteins, a very large number of antifungal proteins active on the fungal cell wall, on enzymes of the cell wall synthesis machinery, the plasma membrane and on intracellular targets have been characterised. 
23500559	20130319	Bioresour._Technol.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular analyses of the functional microbial community in composting by PCR-DGGE targeting the genes of the β-glucosidase.	The study investigated the β-glucosidase-producing microbial communities and the enzymatic dynamics of CMCase and β-glucosidase during the process of cattle manure-rice straw composting. In order to analyze the succession of functional community by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGEs), three sets of PCR primers were designed to amplify the family 1 and 3 β-glucosidase genes from both bacteria and fungi. The results showed in general that the stable functional community composition as well as for the high level enzymatic activities of both cellulase and β-glucosidase occurred during the last phase (days 14-31) of composting. In the process of composting, that functional groups were determined by the stable bands (GH1-F, GH1-H, GH1-G, GH3E-D and GH3E-E) may significantly contribute to the increase of β-glucosidase activities in the later phase. Especially, the bands from the family 1 β-glucosidase genes were appeared before that from the family 3 β-glucosidase genes from fungi, then the former was substituted for the latter gradually in the cooling phase. We found significant correlations between the β-glucosidase activity and the communities of the functional bacteria and fungi. The results indicated that different β-glucosidase-producing microbe release different amounts or activities of β-glucosidase, and that the composition of microbial communities may play a major role in determining overall β-glucosidase activity during the composting process. 
11580836	20011003	Mol._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Lre1 affects chitinase expression, trehalose accumulation and heat resistance through inhibition of the Cbk1 protein kinase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The addition of glucose to derepressed cells of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae triggers activation of the cAMP pathway with a rapid drop in stress resistance as a consequence. We have isolated the LRE1 gene as a multicopy suppressor of glucose-induced loss of heat resistance. Overexpression of LRE1 in a wild-type strain causes the same phenotype as observed in strains with reduced activity of the cAMP-PKA pathway: higher heat resistance and enhanced trehalose levels. Deletion of LRE1 results in the opposite phenotypes. Epistasis analysis indicates that these effects are independent of cAMP and PKA, of the protein kinases Yak1, Sch9 and Rim15 and of the transcription factors Msn2 and Msn4. Lre1 has recently been isolated in a two-hybrid screen using the conserved protein kinase Cbk1 as a bait. Cbk1 controls the expression of CTS1 (encoding chitinase) through the transcription factor Ace2. We demonstrate here that overexpression of LRE1 represses CTS1 whereas deletion of LRE1 induces the expression of CTS1. Repression of CTS1 results in deficient cell separation as a result of inefficient degradation of the chitin ring after cytokinesis. Neither deletion nor overexpression of LRE1 has any effect on CTS1 expression in a cbk1Delta mutant, indicating that Lre1 inhibits Cbk1. In addition, we show that increased trehalose accumulation and increased heat resistance caused by overexpression of LRE1 are also the result of inhibition of Cbk1, revealing a novel control pathway for certain targets affected by PKA. The yeast genome contains a homologue of LRE1, YDR528w, which we have called HLR1 (for homologue of Lre1). Deletion and overexpression of HLR1 causes similar but less pronounced effects compared with LRE1. 
110377	19790801	Biotechnol._Bioeng.	D016428 	Secretion of cellulase and beta-glucosidase by Trichoderma viride ITCC-1433 in submerged culture on different substrates.	Trichoderma viride ITCC-1433 produces high yields of cellulase and especially beta-glucosidase when grown in submerged culture on different carbon sources. Cellulase synthesis was strongly repressed in the presence of glucose and only a low constitutive activity of beta-glucosidase and carboxymethylcellulase, but no Avicelase, could be demonstrated when culturing T. viride on glucose. With carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) as a substrate the secretion of enzyme as well as growth depended on the degree of substitution, but in general CMC cannot be regarded either as a powerful inducer or as a carbon source. With insoluble cellulose, maximum enzyme production and activities were obtained using an alkali-treated cellulose powder. On this substrate the excretion of soluble protein into the culture broth increased and the protein concentration corresponded to cellulolytic activities. 
11814444	20020130	Carbohydr._Res.	D016428 D013485 	Utilization of commercial non-chitinase enzymes from fungi for preparation of 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-glucose from beta-chitin.	Commercial non-chitinase enzymes from Aspergilus niger, Acremonium cellulolyticus and Trichoderma viride were investigated for potential utilization in the preparation of 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-glucose (N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, GlcNAc) from chitin. Among the tested enzymes, cellulase A. cellulolyticus exhibited highest chitinolytic activity per weight toward amorphous chitin and beta-chitin from squid pen. The optimum pH of the enzyme was 3 where it produced two major hydrolytic products, GlcNAc and N,N'-diacetylchitobiose ([GlcNAc](2)). The product ratio, GlcNAc:[GlcNAc](2), increased while the total yield decreased as the pH was raised from 3. All of the [GlcNAc](2) produced at pH 3 can be converted in situ to GlcNAc by mixing cellulase A. cellulolyticus with one of several other enzymes from A. niger resulting in a higher yield of GlcNAc. An appropriate mixing ratio of cellulase A. cellulolyticus to another enzyme was 9:1 (w/w) and an optimum substrate concentration was 20 mg/mL. 
8566773	19951229	Gene	D016428 D013487 	Isolation and characterization of two chitinase-encoding genes (cts1, cts2) from the fungus Coccidioides immitis.	Two chitinase (CTS)-encoding genes (cts) from Coccidioides immitis (Ci), a respiratory fungal pathogen of humans, were cloned and sequenced. Both the genomic and cDNA sequences are presented. The transcription start points and poly(A)-addition sites were confirmed. The cts1 gene contains five introns and a 1281-bp ORF which translates a 427-amino-acid (aa) protein of 47.4 kDa. The cts2 gene contains two introns and a 2580-bp ORF which translates a 860-aa protein of 91.4 kDa. The deduced CTS1 protein showed highest homology to the Aphanocladium album and Trichoderma harzianum CTS (74% and 76%, respectively), while CTS2 showed highest homology to the CTS of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Sc) and Candida albicans (47% and 51%, respectively). The putative N-terminal sequence of the mature CTS1 protein also showed 89% homology to the reported N-terminal sequence of a 48-kDa complement fixation antigen (CF-Ag) of Ci which has demonstrated chitinase activity. The CF-Ag is a clinically important antigen used in serodiagnosis of this fungal disease. CTS2 showed several of the conserved features of the Sc CTS, including putative catalytic and Ser/Thr-rich domains, and a C-terminal Cys-rich region. We propose that CTS1 and CTS2 of Ci are members of two distinct classes of fungal chitinases, an observation not previously reported for a single fungus. 
20567216	20100623	J_Vis_Exp	D016428 D013485 D059040 	OLIgo mass profiling (OLIMP) of extracellular polysaccharides.	The direct contact of cells to the environment is mediated in many organisms by an extracellular matrix. One common aspect of extracellular matrices is that they contain complex sugar moieties in form of glycoproteins, proteoglycans, and/or polysaccharides. Examples include the extracellular matrix of humans and animal cells consisting mainly of fibrillar proteins and proteoglycans or the polysaccharide based cell walls of plants and fungi, and the proteoglycan/glycolipid based cell walls of bacteria. All these glycostructures play vital roles in cell-to-cell and cell-to-environment communication and signalling. An extraordinary complex example of an extracellular matrix is present in the walls of higher plant cells. Their wall is made almost entirely of sugars, up to 75% dry weight, and consists of the most abundant biopolymers present on this planet. Therefore, research is conducted how to utilize these materials best as a carbon-neutral renewable resource to replace petrochemicals derived from fossil fuel. The main challenge for fuel conversion remains the recalcitrance of walls to enzymatic or chemical degradation due to the unique glycostructures present in this unique biocomposite. Here, we present a method for the rapid and sensitive analysis of plant cell wall glycostructures. This method OLIgo Mass Profiling (OLIMP) is based the enzymatic release of oligosaccharides from wall materials facilitating specific glycosylhydrolases and subsequent analysis of the solubilized oligosaccharide mixtures using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/MS)(1) (Figure 1). OLIMP requires walls of only 5000 cells for a complete analysis, can be performed on the tissue itself(2), and is amenable to high-throughput analyses(3). While the absolute amount of the solubilized oligosaccharides cannot be determined by OLIMP the relative abundance of the various oligosaccharide ions can be delineated from the mass spectra giving insights about the substitution-pattern of the native polysaccharide present in the wall. OLIMP can be used to analyze a wide variety of wall polymers, limited only by the availability of specific enzymes(4). For example, for the analysis of polymers present in the plant cell wall enzymes are available to analyse the hemicelluloses xyloglucan using a xyloglucanase(5, 11, 12, 13), xylan using an endo-beta-(1-4)-xylanase (6,7), or for pectic polysaccharides using a combination of a polygalacturonase and a methylesterase (8). Furthermore, using the same principles of OLIMP glycosylhydrolase and even glycosyltransferase activities can be monitored and determined (9). 
24150040	20131024	Mol._Biol._Evol.	D016428 D013485 	Plant expansins in bacteria and fungi: evolution by horizontal gene transfer and independent domain fusion.	Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) has been described as a common mechanism of transferring genetic material between prokaryotes, whereas genetic transfers from eukaryotes to prokaryotes have been rarely documented. Here we report a rare case of HGT in which plant expansin genes that code for plant cell-wall loosening proteins were transferred from plants to bacteria, fungi, and amoebozoa. In several cases, the species in which the expansin gene was found is either in intimate association with plants or is a known plant pathogen. Our analyses suggest that at least two independent genetic transfers occurred from plants to bacteria and fungi. These events were followed by multiple HGT events within bacteria and fungi. We have also observed that in bacteria expansin genes have been independently fused to DNA fragments that code for an endoglucanase domain or for a carbohydrate binding module, pointing to functional convergence at the molecular level. Furthermore, the functional similarities between microbial expansins and their plant xenologs suggest that these proteins mediate microbial-plant interactions by altering the plant cell wall and therefore may provide adaptive advantages to these species. The evolution of these nonplant expansins represents a unique case in which bacteria and fungi have found innovative and adaptive ways to interact with and infect plants by acquiring genes from their host. This evolutionary paradigm suggests that despite their low frequency such HGT events may have significantly contributed to the evolution of prokaryotic and eukaryotic species.  
16800643	20060628	Biochemistry	D016428 D013485 	Oxygen- and glucose-dependent expression of Trhxt1, a putative glucose transporter gene of Trichoderma reesei.	The filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei is adapted to nutrient-poor environments, in which it uses extracellular cellulases to obtain glucose from the available cellulose biomass. We have isolated and characterized Trhxt1, a putative glucose transporter gene, as judged by the glucose accumulation phenotype of a DeltaTrhxt1 mutant. This gene is repressed at high glucose concentrations and expressed at micromolar levels and in the absence of glucose. The gene is also induced during the growth of T. reesei on cellulose when the glucose concentration generated from the hydrolysis of cellulose present in the culture medium is in the micromolar range. We also show that oxygen availability controls the expression of the Trxht1 gene. In this regard, the gene is down-regulated by hypoxia and also by the inhibition of the flow of electrons through the respiratory chain using antimycin A. Intriguingly, anoxia but not hypoxia strongly induces the expression of the gene in the presence of an otherwise repressive concentration of glucose. These results indicate that although the absence of repressing concentrations of glucose and an active respiratory chain are required for Trhxt1 expression under normoxic conditions these physiological processes have no effect on the expression of this gene under an anoxic state. Thus, our results highlight the presence of a novel coordinated interaction between oxygen and the regulatory circuit for glucose repression under anoxic conditions. 
11393772	20010608	Cytobios	D016428 	Production and properties of beta-mannanase by free and immobilized cells of Aspergillus oryzae NRRL 3488.	Seven fungi were tested for production of mannanases. The highest mannanase activities were produced by Aspergillus oryzae NRRL 3488 after 7 days in static cultures. Mannanases were induced by gum locust bean (1.0%). The highest mannanase activity was produced when a mixture of peptone, urea and ammonium sulphate was used as nitrogen source. Zn2+ or Co2+ favoured enzyme production. The immobilized cells on Ca-alginate and agar were able to produce beta-mannanase for four runs with a slight decrease in the activity. The optimum temperature for enzyme reaction was 50-55 degrees C at pH 6.0. In the absence of substrate the enzyme was thermostable retaining 75% activity for 1 h at 50 degrees C, and 68% activity for 1 h at 60 degrees C. 
12684541	20030410	Mol._Cell_Proteomics	D016428 	The transcriptome and its translation during recovery from cell cycle arrest in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Complete genome sequences together with high throughput technologies have made comprehensive characterizations of gene expression patterns possible. While genome-wide measurement of mRNA levels was one of the first applications of these advances, other important aspects of gene expression are also amenable to a genomic approach, for example, the translation of message into protein. Earlier we reported a high throughput technology for simultaneously studying mRNA level and translation, which we termed translation state array analysis, or TSAA. The current studies test the proposition that TSAA can identify novel instances of translation regulation at the genome-wide level. As a biological model, cultures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were cell cycle-arrested using either alpha-factor or the temperature-sensitive cdc15-2 allele. Forty-eight mRNAs were found to change significantly in translation state following release from alpha-factor arrest, including genes involved in pheromone response and cell cycle arrest such as BAR1, SST2, and FAR1. After the shift of the cdc15-2 strain from 37 degrees C to 25 degrees C, 54 mRNAs were altered in translation state, including the products of the stress genes HSP82, HSC82, and SSA2. Thus, regulation at the translational level seems to play a significant role in the response of yeast cells to external physical or biological cues. In contrast, surprisingly few genes were found to be translationally controlled as cells progressed through the cell cycle. Additional refinements of TSAA should allow characterization of both transcriptional and translational regulatory networks on a genomic scale, providing an additional layer of information that can be integrated into models of system biology and function. 
24360128	20131224	AMB_Express	D016428 	Enhancing cellulase and hemicellulase production by genetic modification of the carbon catabolite repressor gene, creA, in Acremonium cellulolyticus.	Acremonium cellulolyticus is one of several fungi that offer promise as an alternative to Trichoderma reesei for use in industrial cellulase production. However, the mechanism of cellulase production has not been studied at the molecular level because adequate genetic engineering tools for use in A. cellulolyticus are lacking. In the present study, we developed a gene disruption method for A. cellulolyticus, which needs a longer homologous region length. We cloned a putative A. cellulolyticus creA gene that is highly similar to the creA genes derived from other filamentous fungi, and isolated a creA disruptant strain by using the disruption method. Growth of the creA disruptant on agar plates was slower than that of the control strain. In the wild-type strain, the CreA protein was localized in the nucleus, suggesting that the cloned gene encodes the CreA transcription factor. Cellulase and xylanase production by the creA disruptant were higher than that of the control strain at the enzyme and transcription levels. Furthermore, the creA disruptant produced cellulase and xylanase in the presence of glucose. These data suggest both that the CreA protein functions as a catabolite repressor protein, and that disruption of creA is effective for enhancing enzyme production by A. cellulolyticus.  
16499618	20060228	FEMS_Microbiol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular cloning, characterization, and expression studies of a novel chitinase gene (ech30) from the mycoparasite Trichoderma atroviride strain P1.	We describe the cloning and characterization of a single copy gene from Trichoderma atroviride P1 encoding a novel 30 kDa chitinase, Ech30. Ech30 is a family 18 chitinase showing low sequence similarity to other Trichoderma chitinases. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR studies revealed that expression of the ech30 gene was induced by the presence of Botrytis cinerea in plate confrontation assays, but hardly by chitin in liquid cultures. Studies of Ech30 purified from an Escherichia coli strain overexpressing the ech30 gene devoid of the leader sequence and a predicted intron, showed that the gene encodes an active chitinase, which, as expected for family 18 chitinases, is inhibited by allosamidin. 
2294974	19900119	Biochim._Biophys._Acta	D016428 D013485 D013486 	Comparison of the hydrolytic activity and fluorescence of native, guanidine hydrochloride-treated and renatured cellobiohydrolase I from Trichoderma reesei.	Guanidine hydrochloride (GdnHCl) is an effective agent for the elution of cellulase protein from unhydrolyzed cellulosic residues, but once eluted the enzyme is inactive. The studies described in this paper examine the effect of GdnHCl on the hydrolytic activity and tryptophan fluorescence of cellobiohydrolase I (CBH I) from Trichoderma reesei. CBH I was found to be completely inactivated by 0.25 M GdnHCl, but higher concentrations of GdnHCl were required to partially unfold this enzyme, as determined from the measurement of a decrease in its tryptophan fluorescence. Binding of CBH I to microcrystalline cellulose was prevented by 4 M GdnHCl, suggesting that a conformational change of CBH I resulted in the loss of substrate binding. Removal of the denaturant from CBH I by dialysis or gel filtration allowed the kinetics of the reactivation of CBH I, after 4 M GdnHCl treatment, to be studied. The fluorescence and specific hydrolytic activity of native and renatured CBH I were comparable. It is concluded, therefore, that GdnHCl may be used to elute cellulase components, such as CBH I, adsorbed on undigested cellulosic substrates since this component can easily be renatured and subsequently reused. 
17505784	20070517	Biotechnol._Lett.	D016428 D013485 	Production of Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi cutinase in Fusarium venenatum A3/5.	Fusarium venenatum A3/5 was transformed using the Aspergillus niger expression plasmid, pIGF, in which the coding sequence for the F. solani f. sp. pisi cutinase gene had been inserted in frame, with a KEX2 cleavage site, with the truncated A. niger glucoamylase gene under control of the A. niger glucoamylase promoter. The transformant produced up to 21 U cutinase l(-1) in minimal medium containing glucose or starch as the primary carbon source. Glucoamylase (165 U l(-1) or 8 mg l(-1)) was also produced. Both the transformant and the parent strain produced cutinase in medium containing cutin. 
9182997	19970501	Eur._J._Biochem.	D016428 D013485 	Structural characterization of N-linked oligosaccharides from cellobiohydrolase I secreted by the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei RUTC 30.	We have characterized the primary structures of the predominant N-linked oligosaccharides on cellobiohydrolase I from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei RUTC30. Different enzymatic and chromatographic techniques were used to analyze six oligosaccharides. The combined data showed that the fungal carbohydrates have a core structure that is identical to the mammalian N-linked core. In the bulk of the N-glycans, the alpha-1,3 arm is extended with two mannoses and a glucose, suggesting incomplete processing of the oligosaccharides in the endoplasmic reticulum. The alpha-1,6 arm shows a remarkable heterogeneity: in addition to alpha-1,2-Man and alpha-1,6-Man, the presence of a terminal mannose alpha-1,6-phosphodiester was observed. This latter substituent has not been characterized before on mannosidase-processed N-glycan and its function and synthesis pathway are entirely unknown. The predominant N-glycans on cellobiohydrolase I can be represented as follows: GlcMan8GlcNAc2, GlcMan7GlcNAc2, Man7GlcNAc2, ManPGlcMan7GlcNAc2, GlcMan5GlcNAc2 and Man5GlcNAc2. 
10052139	19990303	Biosci._Biotechnol._Biochem.	D016428 	Insertion analysis of putative functional elements in the promoter region of the Aspergillus oryzae Taka-amylase A gene (amyB) using a heterologous Aspergillus nidulans amdS-lacZ fusion gene system.	Expression of the Taka-amylase A gene (amyB) of Aspergillus oryzae is induced by starch or maltose. The A. oryzae amyB gene promoter contains three highly conserved sequences, designated Regions I, II, and III, compared with promoter regions of the A. oryzae glaA encoding glucoamylase and the agdA encoding alpha-glucosidase. To identify the function of these sequences within the amyB promoter, various fragments containing conserved sequences in the amyB promoter were introduced into the upstream region of the heterologous A. nidulans amdS gene (encoding acetamidase) fused to the Escherichia coli lacZ gene as a reporter. Introduction of the sequence between -290 to -233 (the number indicates the distance in base pairs from the translation initiation point (+1)) containing Region III significantly increased the expression of the lacZ reporter gene in the presence of maltose. The sequence between -377 to -290 containing Region I also increased the lacZ activity, but its maltose inducibility was less than that of Region III. The sequence between -233 to -181 containing Region II had no effect on the expression. These results indicated that Region III is most likely involved in the maltose induction of the amyB gene expression. 
23303647	20130111	ChemSusChem	D016428 D013485 	Lipase-mediated oxidative delignification in non-aqueous media: formation of de-aromatized lignin-oil and cellulase-accessible polysaccharides.	Pulp & Oil: We report the unprecedented formation of de-aromatized lignin oil together with a white polysaccharide fraction when lignocellulose is treated with peracids, which are formed in situ by enzymes. A preliminary characterization of the lignin oil is provided, together with the evidence that the delignified lignocellulose is accessible to cellulases to afford fermentable sugars. As a first proof-of-concept, the reported approach may bring promising new research lines in the future. 
8444853	19930305	J._Biol._Chem.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular analysis of the neutral trehalase gene from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Neutral trehalase (EC 3.2.1.28) is a trehalose hydrolyzing enzyme of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae (App, H., and Holzer, H. (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 264, 17583-17588). The gene of neutral trehalase was cloned by complementation of a neutral trehalase-deficient yeast mutant which was obtained by ethylmethanesulfonate mutagenesis. Three mutants without detectable neutral trehalase activity were obtained and characterized by tetrad analysis and found to belong to the same complementation group. The mutants were transformed with a S. cerevisiae genomic library in YEp24. Two overlapping plasmids were isolated, containing the neutral trehalase gene NTH1 with an open reading frame of 2079 base pairs (bp), encoding a protein of 693 amino acids, corresponding to a molecular mass of 79,569 Da. Several putative TATA boxes were found in the 5'-nontranslated region of the NTH1 gene. In positions -652 to -641 a possible binding sequence for the MIG1 protein, a multicopy inhibitor of the GAL1 promotor, which also binds to the promotor sequences of the SUC2 and the FBP1 gene, was found. The start codon of the neutral trehalase is located about 2500 bp upstream of the centromere 4 consensus sequence elements I, II, and III (Mann, C., and Davis, R. W. (1986) Mol. Cell. Biol. 6, 241-245). Vicinity to a centromere is known to have a depressing influence on the number of plasmid copies per cell. This probably explains why transformation with pNTH does not lead to overexpression of neutral trehalase. The four consensus sequences AATAAA contained in the centromeric elements and reconfirmed by our sequencing data might be polyadenylation signals for NTH1-mRNA transcription termination. Northern blot analysis yielded a single mRNA species of approximately 2.3 kilobase(s). The neutral trehalase protein has a putative cAMP-dependent phosphorylation consensus sequence RRGS from amino acid positions 22-25. Therefore, the previously described activation of neutral trehalase by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation is probably due to phosphorylation of serine 25. Three potential N-glycosylation sites (Asn-X-Ser/Thr) occur in the open reading frame of the neutral trehalase gene. However, no evidence for glycosylation could be detected by Western blotting.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 
16059706	20050802	Arch._Microbiol.	D016428 	Biodegradation of dipropyl phthalate and toxicity of its degradation products: a comparison of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. pisi cutinase and Candida cylindracea esterase.	The efficiency of two lypolytic enzymes (fungal cutinase, yeast esterase) in the degradation of dipropyl phthalate (DPrP) was investigated. The DPrP-degradation rate of fungal cutinase was surprisingly high, i.e., almost 70% of the initial DPrP (500 mg/l) was decomposed within 2.5 h and nearly 50% of the degraded DPrP disappeared within the initial 15 min. With the yeast esterase, despite the same concentration, more than 90% of the DPrP remained even after 3 days of treatment. During the enzymatic degradation of DPrP, several DPrP-derived compounds were detected and time-course changes in composition were also monitored. The final chemical composition after 3 days was significantly dependent on the enzyme used. During degradation with fungal cutinase, most DPrP was converted into 1,3-isobenzofurandione (IBF) by diester hydrolysis. However, in the degradation by yeast esterase, propyl methyl phthalate (PrMP) was produced in abundance in addition to IBF. The toxic effects of the final degradation products were investigated using various recombinant bioluminescent bacteria. As a result, the degradation products (including PrMP) from yeast esterase severely caused oxidative stress and damage to protein synthesis in bacterial cells, while in the fungal cutinase processes, DPrP was significantly degraded to non-toxic IBF after the extended period (3 days). 
21539585	20110505	FEMS_Microbiol._Ecol.	D016428 D013485 	Saprotrophic basidiomycete mycelia and their interspecific interactions affect the spatial distribution of extracellular enzymes in soil.	Saprotrophic cord-forming basidiomycetes are important decomposers of lignocellulosic substrates in soil. The production of extracellular hydrolytic enzymes was studied during the growth of two saprotrophic basidiomycetes, Hypholoma fasciculare and Phanerochaete velutina, across the surface of nonsterile soil microcosms, along with the effects of these basidiomycetes on fungi and bacteria within the soil. Higher activities of α-glucosidase, β-glucosidase, cellobiohydrolase, β-xylosidase, phosphomonoesterase and phosphodiesterase, but not of arylsulphatase, were recorded beneath the mycelia. Despite the fact that H. fasciculare, with exploitative hyphal growth, produced much denser hyphal cover on the soil surface than P. velutina, with explorative growth, both fungi produced similar amounts of extracellular enzymes. In the areas where the mycelia of H. fasciculare and P. velutina interacted, the activities of N-acetylglucosaminidase, α-glucosidase and phosphomonoesterase, the enzymes potentially involved in hyphal cell wall damage, and the utilization of compounds released from damaged hyphae of interacting fungi, were particularly increased. No significant differences in fungal biomass were observed between basidiomycete-colonized and noncolonized soil, but bacterial biomass was reduced in soil with H. fasciculare. The increases in the activities of β-xylosidase, β-glucosidase, phosphomonoesterase and cellobiohydrolase with increasing fungal:bacterial biomass ratio indicate the positive effects of fungal enzymes on nutrient release and bacterial abundance, which is reflected in the positive correlation of bacterial and fungal biomass content. 
15888348	20050513	J._Biotechnol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 D013486 	The Phanerochaete chrysosporium secretome: database predictions and initial mass spectrometry peptide identifications in cellulose-grown medium.	The white rot basidiomycete, Phanerochaete chrysosporium, employs an array of extracellular enzymes to completely degrade the major polymers of wood: cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin. Towards the identification of participating enzymes, 268 likely secreted proteins were predicted using SignalP and TargetP algorithms. To assess the reliability of secretome predictions and to evaluate the usefulness of the current database, we performed shotgun LC-MS/MS on cultures grown on standard cellulose-containing medium. A total of 182 unique peptide sequences were matched to 50 specific genes, of which 24 were among the secretome subset. Underscoring the rich genetic diversity of P. chrysosporium, identifications included 32 glycosyl hydrolases. Functionally interconnected enzyme groups were recognized. For example, the multiple endoglucanases and processive exocellobiohydrolases observed quite probably attack cellulose in a synergistic manner. In addition, a hemicellulolytic system included endoxylanases, alpha-galactosidase, acetyl xylan esterase, and alpha-l-arabinofuranosidase. Glucose and cellobiose metabolism likely involves cellobiose dehydrogenase, glucose oxidase, and various inverting glycoside hydrolases, all perhaps enhanced by an epimerase. To evaluate the completeness of the current database, mass spectroscopy analysis was performed on a larger and more inclusive dataset containing all possible ORFs. This allowed identification of a previously undetected hypothetical protein and a putative acid phosphatase. The expression of several genes was supported by RT-PCR amplification of their cDNAs. 
18301900	20080228	Plant_Cell_Rep.	D016428 	Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of taro (Colocasia esculenta (L.) Schott) with a rice chitinase gene for improved tolerance to a fungal pathogen Sclerotium rolfsii.	Taro (Colocasia esculenta) is one of the most important crops in the Pacific Islands, however, taro yields have been declining in Hawaii over the past 30 years partly due to diseases caused by oomycete and fungal pathogens. In this study, an efficient Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation method for taro is first reported. In total, approximately 200 pieces (8 g) of embryogenic calluses were infected with the super-virulent A. tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring the plant transformation plasmid pBI121/ricchi11 that contains the rice chitinase gene ricchi11. The presence and expression of the transgene ricchi11 in six independent transgenic lines was confirmed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR). Southern blot analysis of the six independent lines indicated that three out of six (50%) had integrated a single copy of the transgene, and the other three lines had two or three copies of the transgene. Compared to the particle bombardment transformation of taro method, which was used in the previous studies, the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method obtained 43-fold higher transformation efficiency. In addition, these six transgenic lines via Agrobacterium may be more effective for transgene expression as a result of single-copy or low-copy insertion of the transgene than the single line with multiple copies of the transgene via particle bombardment. In a laboratory bioassay, all six transgenic lines exhibited increased tolerance to the fungal pathogen Sclerotium rolfsii, ranging from 42 to 63% reduction in lesion expansion. 
21223324	20110113	FEMS_Microbiol._Ecol.	D016428 D013485 	Yeasts from an oligotrophic lake in Patagonia (Argentina): diversity, distribution and synthesis of photoprotective compounds and extracellular enzymes.	Nahuel Huapi (NH) Lake is an oligotrophic temperate lake of glacial origin with high transparency, surrounded by well-developed forests and located at San Carlos de Bariloche, Nahuel Huapi National Park, in Patagonia, Argentina. In this lake, we characterized yeast distribution and diversity along a south-to-north transect and established a relationship between the ability to produce photoprotective compounds (PPCs) (carotenoid pigments and mycosporines) and the occurrence of yeast at different collection points. Subsurface water samples were filtered for yeast isolation. Total yeast counts ranged between 22 and 141 CFU L(-1) , and the highest values corresponded to the most impacted sites. Littoral sites had a low proportion of yeast-producing PPCs and this group prevailed in pelagic sites. This is probably a result of the high transparency of the water and the increased UV exposure. The yeast community from NH Lake showed a high species richness and a uniform distribution of taxa between pelagic and border collection points. Yeasts were identified as belonging to 14 genera and 34 species. Rhodotorula mucilaginosa and Cryptococcus victoriae were the most frequently found species, representing 14.4% and 13.6% of the total yeast isolates, respectively. Most of the yeast isolates demonstrated at least one extracellular enzymatic activity (mainly cellulase and lipase activities), which suggested that these microorganisms are metabolically active in the lake. 
8664500	19951101	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D003160 D016428 D013485 	Purification and characterization of an acidic beta-1,3-glucanase from cucumber and its relationship to systemic disease resistance induced by Colletotrichum lagenarium and tobacco necrosis virus.	An acidic beta-1,3-glucanase was detected in cucumber leaves inoculated with either Colletotrichum lagenarium or tobacco necrosis virus (TNV) as well as in the leaves above those inoculated with the pathogens. The enzyme is extracellular and migrates in native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) together with a Class III chitinase, a bifunctional chitinase/lysozyme. The beta-1,3-glucanase was separated by ultra-narrow pH range IEF-PAGE or by SDS_PAGE and was purified to apparent homogeneity. Only one isoform of the enzyme was detected. Its apparent molecular mass in 38 kDa as estimated by SDS-PAGE, its isoelectric point is 3.6 and the specific activity is approximately 26 micromol glucose equivalents liberated from laminarin min(-1)mg(-1) protein. Partial amino acid (five peptide fragments with a total of 65 amino acids) sequencing of the beta-1,3-glucanase revealed similarities of 49% to 72% to sequences of published beta-1,3-glucanases from tobacco, tomato, soybean, barley, and rice plants. A time course study indicated that the increase of the beta-1,3-glucanase activity was associated with induced resistance against C. lagenarium. The implications of these results to coordinate defense responses in plant-microbe interactions are discussed. 
15283133	20040731	Plant_Physiol._Biochem.	D016428 	Increased production of beta-1,3 glucanase and proteins in Bipolaris sorokiniana pathosystem treated using commercial xanthan gum.	Barley plants (cultivars Embrapa 127, 128 and 129) treated with xanthan gum, and with different time intervals between the administration of the inducer and the pathogen. demonstrated induction of resistance against Bipolaris sorokiniana. Induction was shown to have local and systemic action. In order to prove the resistance effect, biochemical analyses were performed to quantify proteins and the enzymatic activity of beta-1,3 glucanase. Results demonstrated that barley plants treated with the inducer, showed an increase in the concentration of proteins, as well as in the activity of the enzyme beta-1,3 glucanase, when compared with the extract from healthy plants. In infected plants, protein concentrations decreased and enzymatic activity was lower than in healthy plants. Results suggest that barley plants treated with xanthan gum developed mechanisms responsible for induced resistance, which are still unknown. The most important macromolecule in the defense mechanism was demonstrated to be PR-protein, due to its accumulation and concentration of proteins. However, it may not be the only macromolecule responsible for the resistance effect. 
23937687	20130814	Biotechnol_Biofuels	D016428 	Differential proteomic analysis of the secretome of Irpex lacteus and other white-rot fungi during wheat straw pretreatment.	Identifying new high-performance enzymes or enzyme complexes to enhance biomass degradation is the key for the development of cost-effective processes for ethanol production. Irpex lacteus is an efficient microorganism for wheat straw pretreatment, yielding easily hydrolysable products with high sugar content. Thus, this fungus was selected to investigate the enzymatic system involved in lignocellulose decay, and its secretome was compared to those from Phanerochaete chrysosporium and Pleurotus ostreatus which produced different degradation patterns when growing on wheat straw. Extracellular enzymes were analyzed through 2D-PAGE, nanoLC/MS-MS, and homology searches against public databases. In wheat straw, I. lacteus secreted proteases, dye-decolorizing and manganese-oxidizing peroxidases, and H2O2 producing-enzymes but also a battery of cellulases and xylanases, excluding those implicated in cellulose and hemicellulose degradation to their monosaccharides, making these sugars poorly available for fungal consumption. In contrast, a significant increase of β-glucosidase production was observed when I. lacteus grew in liquid cultures. P. chrysosporium secreted more enzymes implicated in the total hydrolysis of the polysaccharides and P. ostreatus produced, in proportion, more oxidoreductases. The protein pattern secreted during I. lacteus growth in wheat straw plus the differences observed among the different secretomes, justify the fitness of I. lacteus for biopretreatment processes in 2G-ethanol production. Furthermore, all these data give insight into the biological degradation of lignocellulose and suggest new enzyme mixtures interesting for its efficient hydrolysis. 
14504373	20030925	Occup_Environ_Med	D016428 	Prevalence of sensitisation to cellulase and xylanase in bakery workers.	To assess the prevalence of sensitisation to a range of exogenous fungal enzymes used in bakeries, and determine the relation between sensitisation and work related symptoms. Serum samples (n = 135) from a previous cross sectional study investigating the prevalence of respiratory symptoms and sensitisation to dust components, were reanalysed for specific IgE to the mixed enzymes cellulase, hemicellulase, and xylanase. Eight (6%) of sera tested had detectable specific IgE to mixed enzymes (excluding fungal alpha-amylase) and 16 (12%) to fungal alpha-amylase. A significant increase (p = 0.03) in nasal symptoms was found in those workers sensitised to enzymes (including alpha-amylase and the mixed enzymes, but with or without sensitisation to wheat flour) when compared to those sensitised to wheat flour alone. Both groups had significantly greater levels of nasal symptoms in comparison to those with no evidence of sensitisation. The association between specific IgE to mixed enzymes, and an increased prevalence of nasal symptoms in individuals sensitised to enzymes, highlights the importance of measuring sensitisation to the full range of exogenous enzymes used in the baking industry, as well as to wheat flour. 
1748872	19910901	J._Gen._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Regulation of chitinase synthesis in Trichoderma harzianum.	The production of chitinase by Trichoderma species is of interest in relation to their use in biocontrol and as a source of mycolytic enzymes. Fourteen isolates of the genus were screened to identify the most effective producer of chitinase. The best strain for chitinase was Trichoderma harzianum 39.1, and this was selected for study of the regulation of enzyme synthesis. Washed mycelium of T. harzianum 39.1 was incubated with a range of carbon sources. Chitinase synthesis was induced on chitin-containing medium, but repressed by glucose and N-acetylglucosamine. Production of the enzyme was optimal at a chitin concentration of 0.5%, at 28 degrees C, pH 6.0 and was independent of the age of the mycelium. The synthesis of chitinase was blocked by both 8-hydroxyquinoline and cycloheximide, inhibitors of RNA and protein synthesis, respectively. The mode of chitinase synthesis in this fungus is discussed. 
18806001	20080923	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D016428 D013485 	Flavobacterium sp. strain 4221 and Pedobacter sp. strain 4236 beta-1,3-glucanases that are active at low temperatures.	Secretion of beta-1,3-glucanases by the arctic bacterial isolates 4221 and 4236, related to the genera Flavobacterium and Pedobacter, was discovered. Escherichia coli and Lactococcus lactis expression of beta-1,3-glucanases Glc4221-1 and Glc4236-1 from the respective isolates was achieved. The enzymes hydrolyzed fungal cell walls and retained activity at low temperatures. 
12795380	20030611	Mol._Plant_Microbe_Interact.	D016428 D013485 	Molecular evidence that the extracellular cutinase Pbc1 is required for pathogenicity of Pyrenopeziza brassicae on oilseed rape.	Recent evidence has suggested that cutinase is required for cuticular penetration and, therefore, is essential for pathogenicity of Pyrenopeziza brassicae, the causal organism of light leaf spot disease of oilseed rape and other brassicas. In order to acquire molecular evidence for the role of cutinase in pathogenesis, the single-copy P. brassicae cutinase gene Pbc1 was disrupted by a transformation-mediated approach. Southern hybridization analysis revealed that in one mutant, NH10-1224, the disruption was due to a tandem insertion of two copies of the disruption vector into the 5' coding region of Pbc1. In contrast to the wild type, no expression of Pbc1 was detected during in planta growth or in cutin-induced mycelium of NH10-1224 and no cutinase activity was detected in culture supernatants from NH10-1224 using p-nitrophenyl butyrate as substrate. Scanning electron microscopy of Brassica napus cotyledons infected with wild-type P. brassicae confirmed that entry into the host is by direct penetration of the cuticle. In contrast, the cutinase-deficient mutant NH10-1224 failed to penetrate the cuticular layer and was unable to develop disease symptoms. This evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that Pbc1 is required for P. brassicae to penetrate the plant cuticle. Demonstration that complementation of NH10-1224 with the Pbc1 wild-type gene restores both cutinase activity and pathogenicity will be required to definitively establish that cutinase is required for successful pathogenesis of brassicas by P. brassicae. 
16000810	20050708	Appl._Environ._Microbiol.	D023362 D016428 D013485 	Improvement of the fungal biocontrol agent Trichoderma atroviride to enhance both antagonism and induction of plant systemic disease resistance.	Biocontrol agents generally do not perform well enough under field conditions to compete with chemical fungicides. We determined whether transgenic strain SJ3-4 of Trichoderma atroviride, which expresses the Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase-encoding gene, goxA, under a homologous chitinase (nag1) promoter had increased capabilities as a fungal biocontrol agent. The transgenic strain differed only slightly from the wild-type in sporulation or the growth rate. goxA expression occurred immediately after contact with the plant pathogen, and the glucose oxidase formed was secreted. SJ3-4 had significantly less N-acetylglucosaminidase and endochitinase activities than its nontransformed parent. Glucose oxidase-containing culture filtrates exhibited threefold-greater inhibition of germination of spores of Botrytis cinerea. The transgenic strain also more quickly overgrew and lysed the plant pathogens Rhizoctonia solani and Pythium ultimum. In planta, SJ3-4 had no detectable improved effect against low inoculum levels of these pathogens. Beans planted in heavily infested soil and treated with conidia of the transgenic Trichoderma strain germinated, but beans treated with wild-type spores did not germinate. SJ3-4 also was more effective in inducing systemic resistance in plants. Beans with SJ3-4 root protection were highly resistant to leaf lesions caused by the foliar pathogen B. cinerea. This work demonstrates that heterologous genes driven by pathogen-inducible promoters can increase the biocontrol and systemic resistance-inducing properties of fungal biocontrol agents, such as Trichoderma spp., and that these microbes can be used as vectors to provide plants with useful molecules (e.g., glucose oxidase) that can increase their resistance to pathogens. 
21790031	20110728	Prikl._Biokhim._Mikrobiol.	D004740 D016428 	[Creation of a heterologous gene expression system on the basis of Aspergillus awamori recombinant strain].	A heterologous gene expression system was created in a domestic Aspergillus awamori Co-6804 strain, which is a producer of the glucoamylase gene. Vector pGa was prepared using promoter and terminator areas of the glucoamylase gene, and A. niger phytase, Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase, and Penicillium canescens xylanase genes were then cloned into pGa vector. Separation of enzyme samples using FPLC showed the amount of the recombinant proteins to be within the 0.6-14% range of total protein. 